{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 My fellow Americans: I'd like to take a few minutes of your time to talk about some of the problems we face in this blessed land of ours and what I feel we should do about them. I can't cover all that territory in 5 minutes, so I'll be back every Saturday at this same time, same station, live. I hope you'll tune in. These aren't easy times for a great many of you. Yesterday we were told that unemployment has gone up another two-tenths of I percentequal to the unemployment rate we had in 1975 as we began to come out of that recession. We can, however, take some comfort from the fact that 99 1/2 million of our people are employed. Now, I know that's no comfort to those who want to work and can't find a job. And it's no comfort to farmers, independent business people, auto dealers, realtors, and building contractors who see themselves going out of business. These people want answersand so do you-about what we can do to get our economy back on track. The last recession before this one came in 1980. And by the time our administration took office, unemployment had almost reached 8 million, the prime rate had reached 21 1/2 percentthe highest in more than a centuryand inflation was at 12.4 percent. According to the polls, inflation was the number one problem in everyone's mind. All of us associated it with the high interest rates and rightly so. A lender must charge an interest rate high enough to cover inflation as well as give a return on his or her money. We proposed a program of economic recovery based on the belief that high taxes had deprived people and business of incentive to the point that we'd lost much of our ability to produce. Those high taxes had fueled a rate of increase in government spending that reached 17 percent in 1980 alone. Even high taxes couldn't keep up with that. In the few years between 1976 and 1981, Federal tax revenues increased by $300 billionbut we had $318 billion in deficits. So, our program also aimed at reducing the rate of increase in government spending. Unfortunately, the interest rate stayed up even though we began to reduce inflation. People couldn't afford to buy automobiles on time. Few could or would take a mortgage to buy or build a home at those rates. Lay-offs in the automobile and construction industries increased, and farmers who borrowed to plant and repay at harvest lost money even on bumper crops. By mid-July, we were back in, if we were ever out of, a recession. But for the first time in the many recessions that have taken place over the recent years, we had a plan ready to go. The Congress had agreed to a budget that cut the rate of increase in spending nearly in half. And it passed a tax cut program which increased depreciation allowances for business and began a 25-percent cut in income tax rates for individuals, to be phased in over 3 years. All of this only began last October 1st. Even so, interest rates have been reduced by 20 percent, but that's not nearly enough. They have to come down more, and they should, because our greatest success has been in conquering inflation. It's no longer double digit. For the last 5 months, it's been running at 4 1/2 percent. By all the rules of the game, interest rates should be down around 9 or 10 percent. Unfortunately, the increase in unemployment increased government costs and reduced revenues. More money had to be spent on unemployment insurance and other benefits. Fewer people working meant fewer people paying taxes. Up went the projected deficit for 1983, and up went the concern in the money market that this would lead to an increase in inflation, as it has in all those past recessions. The answer to the recession lies in bringing interest rates down. To do that, a signal must be sent that, while the political process always requires some compromise, government this time intends to stay the course; that we're going to make further reductions in spending and hold to a steady consistent growth in the money supplyin short, that we're going to come out of this recession not with a temporary, quick fix that leads to another recession down the road, but with a solid economic recovery based on increased productivity and jobs for our people. Now, I know you've been told by some that we should do away with the tax cuts in order to reduce the deficit. That's like trying to pull a game out in the fourth quarter by punting on the third down. You've also been told our program hasn't worked. Well, of course it hasn't; it hasn't really started yet. Our 5-percent cut in October was almost wiped out by the January increase in the social security tax called for in the 1977 tax bill. The reduced budget spending and the 10-percent tax cut in July will be the real beginning of our program. There's no instant cure, but there is a cure. With your help and your prayers, we'll find it. I'll be back next Saturday. Thank you, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm speaking to you today from Bridgetown, capital of Barbados, the easternmost nation in a chain of beautiful islands in the Caribbean sea that swings south from the tip of Florida in an arc all the way to the shores of South America. This Caribbean Basin is our third border. Through it come two-thirds of all our imported oil and over half the strategic minerals we need to import for industry and our national defense. As John Adams once said of these islands, "They can neither do without us nor we without them." I came down here to discuss with some of the leaders of these island nations what we can do about problems we have in common. Wednesday, in Jamaica, I met with Prime Minister Seaga, the Governor General, members of the Cabinet and of Parliament. Day before yesterday, we flew here to Barbados for meetings with Prime Minister Adams, the Governor General, and leaders of five other eastern Caribbean nations. We took yesterday, Good Friday, off. And tomorrow we'll go to church and then fly back to Washington. On March 17th, I sent the Congress a proposal for a Caribbean Initiative, a plan for trade, aid, and private investment aimed at strengthening the economies of these islands and the countries of Central America bordering on the Caribbean. We're joined in this effort by Mexico, Canada, Venezuela, and Colombia. I believe our plan is sound and in our best interest as well as theirs. The meetings were worthwhile. And I'm looking forward to hearing from the congressional delegation which has been visiting some of the other islands while we're here. There are other problems in the Americas. Two of our friends, the United Kingdom and Argentina, confront each other in a complex disagreement which goes back many generations. Because they're both our friends, I've offered our help in an effort to bring the two countries together. Secretary Haig has completed a visit to London and is now in Buenos Aires. We'll do all we can to help bring a peaceful resolution of this matter. But now I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about a domestic problem. There's obviously a great misconception on the part of many young people with regard to the program of college grants and guaranteed loans and what we're doing with that program in the 1983 budget. On many campuses, students are being told they may not be able to return to school next year. In some instances, they've even been incited to stage protest demonstrations against what have been called "Draconian cuts" in student aid. One columnist has written, evidently without checking, that millions of American youngsters won't go to college next fall because their government is snatching away grants and subsidized loans. Well, a lot of people have simply been misled. It is true that the amount for guaranteed student loans will decrease from $2.7 billion this year to $2.4 billion in 1983, but not one dime of the money being cut has ever gone directly for loans to students. The actual loans that students receive under this program come from private banks and don't show up in the budget at all. If they did, they'd show the highest level ever$1.6 billion more in student loan awards in fiscal 1983 than this year. We haven't cut loans. We've cut the cost to taxpayers of making these loans available. Surely no one can quarrel with the reduction in administrative costs that results in more money for needy students. About 44 percent of all enrolled college students will receive aid, and undergraduate students who demonstrate need will be eligible for a veritable laundry list of help-up to a $1,600 grant and up to a $2,500 guaranteed loan; work-study support, averaging $700 a year. A parent, regardless of wealth or income, will still be able to borrow up to an additional $3,000 a year. Graduate students will still be able to borrow up to $8,000 a year. We've taken steps to provide greater aid for students from lower income families. The percentage of students from families earning $12,000 or less, receiving grants, will increase from 64 percent this year to about 75 percent. And the loans outstanding in the Guaranteed Student Loan pro-' gram, available to future students, will increase by more than $10'billion next year-actually 10.1 billion. In 1983 more than 4 1/2 million students will receive aid from guaranteed student loans, and that's just one of the programsa 22-percent increase over this year. All told, there will be 7 million grants and loans for a student population of between 11 and 14 million if you include even the part-time students. Well, I'll be back next Saturday. Thank you. And Happy Easter, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Throughout our history and particularly in recent years, America's taken on an ever-increasing role as peacemakertaking the initiative time after time to try to help countries settle their differences peacefully. I don't need to recite the list of diplomatic efforts spanning all administrations in which we've been instrumental in ending war and restoring peace. Yet, there are some who still ask which nation is the true peacemakerthe United States or the Soviet Union? Well, let us ask them, which country has nearly 100,000 troops trying to occupy the once nonaligned nation of Afghanistan? Which country has tried to crush a spontaneous workers' movement in Poland? And what country has engaged in the most massive arms buildup in history? Or, let's put the question another way. What country helped its World War II enemies back on their feet? What country is employing trade aid and technology to help the developing peoples of the world and actively seeking to bring peace to the Middle East, the South Atlantic, and to southern Africa? The answer is clear, and it should give us both pride and hope in America. Today, I know there are a great many people who are pointing to the unimaginable horror of nuclear war. I welcome that concern. Those who've governed America throughout the nuclear age and we who govern it today have had to recognize that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. So, to those who protest against nuclear war, I can only say, "I'm with you." Like my predecessors, it is now my responsibility to do my utmost to prevent such a war. No one feels more than I the need for peace. Throughout the first half of my lifetime, the entire world was engaged in war, or in recovering from war, or in preparing for war. Since the end of World War II, there's not been another world conflict. But there have been and are wars going on in various other parts of the world. This stretch of 37 years since World War II has been the result of our maintaining a balance of power between the United States and the Soviet Union and between the strategic nuclear capabilities of either side. As long as this balance has been maintained, both sides have been given an overwhelming incentive for peace. In the 1970's, the United States altered that balance by, in effect, unilaterally restraining our own military defenses while the Soviet Union engaged in an unprecedented buildup of both its conventional and nuclear forces. As a result, the military balance which permitted us to maintain the peace is now threatened. If steps are not taken to modernize our defense, the United States will progressively lose the ability to deter the Soviet Union from employing force or threats of force against us and against our allies. It would be wonderful if we could restore our balance with the Soviet Union without increasing our own military power. And ideally, it would be a long step in ensuring peace if we could have significant and verifiable reductions of arms on both sides. But let's not fool ourselves. The Soviet Union will not come to any conference table bearing gifts. Soviet negotiators will not make unilateral concessions. To achieve parity, we must make it plain that we have the will to achieve parity by our own effort. Many have been attracted to the idea of a nuclear freeze. Now, that would be fine if we were equal in strategic capability. We're not. We cannot accept an agreement which perpetuates current disparities. The current level of nuclear forces is too high on both sides. It must be the objective of any negotiations on arms control to reduce the numbers of nuclear weapons. Since World War II, the United States has attempted to get Soviet agreement to such reductions countless times. We began back when we alone had such weapons. We were never able to persuade the Soviet Union to join in such an understanding, even when we proposed turning all nuclear material and information over to an international body and when we were the only nation that had nuclear weapons. We're preparing a new arms reduction effort with regard to strategic nuclear forces and are already in negotiations in Geneva on intermediate-range missiles threatening Europe. Our objective in these talks is for the elimination of such missiles on the strategic nuclear forces. We will aim on those at substantial reductions on both sides leading to equal and verifiable limits. We'll make every effort to reach an agreement that will reduce the possibility of nuclear war. If we can do this, perhaps one day we can achieve a relationship with the Soviet Union which doesn't depend upon nuclear deterrents to secure Soviet restraint. I invite the Soviet Union to take such a step with us. And I ask you, the American people, to support our efforts at negotiating an end to this threat of doomsday which hangs over the world. Thank you, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk about three items today, beginning with taxes. About 10 days ago we all kept our rendezvous with the Internal Revenue Service and anted up our income tax. If it'll help ease the pain, let me remind you that in about 2 months, on July 1st, you'll start paying 10 percent less income tax on what you earn. But that won't mean anything to a growing group of citizens who've already given themselves a tax cut. It's estimated that about $95 billion in income tax is not being paid. That's enough to balance the budget. Now, if your first reaction was that these are big money operators using tax sheltersand there are some doing thatI'm not talking about them. The $95 billion is tax owed on an estimated $450 billion in, for want of a better word, the underground economy. The people in this economy are, I'm sure, honest people in most of their activities; they just have a double standard where taxes are concerned. They can be the friendly neighborhood fix-it man, a mechanic, craftsman, or a member of the professions. They have one thing in common-they prefer to be paid in cash. The underground economy is a kind of cash-and-carry barter systemno checks, no records or bookkeeping, and thus no tax. As we struggle to trim government spending, it's hard not to think of how close that unpaid tax could come to wiping out the deficit. If I could paraphrase a line from a well-known old poem, "Breathes there a man with soul so dead who never to himself has said: I owe it to my country and my fellow citizens to quit being a freeloader." Item two: A short time ago, I announced I was asking Congress to pass a bill allowing a tuition tax credit for families sending children to independent or parochial schools. The credit would be for half the tuition up to a ceiling of $500 per child. That ceiling wouldn't apply until 1985. It would be lower to start with and would only apply to families with adjusted gross incomes below $50,000 a year. It would also only be for tuition to elementary and secondary schools. I wish it could be for college, also, but maybe we can do that later when we've solved a few problems. The public school lobby has protested that this is an attack on the public schools for the benefit of students attending exclusive finishing or prep schools. Well, the overwhelming majority of so-called private schools are church-supportedCatholic, Protestant, and Jewish. The majority of students are from families earning less than $25,000. In some of our large cities, 40 percent of the parochial school students are from minority neighborhoods. Their families pay their full share of taxes to fund the public schools. How high would those taxes go for everyone if those parents decided to send their children to public schools? I think they're entitled to some relief since they're supporting two school systems and only using one. And now item three: A couple of weeks ago, I told you of how high interest rates were holding back recovery, that a lender must get a return on his money, plus the rate of inflation. For 6 months, inflation has been running at an annualized rate of only 3.2 percent. And, as you know, last month it actually went down three-tenths of 1 percent, the first time in 17 years. Adding on to that a fair return for a lender, interest rates shouldn't be higher than 10 percent. They are, of course, because the money market, having been burned in past recessions by artificial quick fixes, is afraid that inflation will take off again. Two industries vital to economic recovery have been especially hard hit by high interest ratesautomobiles and housing. But it seems not everyone out there in the marketplace is afraid. The Automobile Dealers Association of Eastern Ohio asked some banks to lower interest rates for new car purchases. The rates were lowered from a 16- to 18-percent level down to 12.9 percent for a 2-week period, March 1st to 13th. The response was so overwhelming they extended the period to March 20th. In the first 3 weeks of February, car dealers of the Youngstown-Warren area had only sold 344 cars and trucks. In those first 20 days in March, they sold 2,200. In Plainfield, Indiana, whether by coincidence or because he'd heard about this, Mr. Hursel C. Disney, chairman of the First National Bank and Trust, lowered interest rates almost four points for loans to buy cars and trucks, making $2 million available for that purpose. His offer has met with the same overwhelming response. Mr. Disney says the offer is good as long as the $2 million lasts. I have no way of knowing how far this idea has spread. But one of the major automobile companies which has its own lending operation is now advertising that until May 31st the interest rate on loans for their cars and trucks will be 12.8 percent. And just the other day, the news reported something similar had started in home mortgages. You know, there really is something magic about the marketplace when it's free to operate. As the song says, "This could be the start of something big." Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This broadcast today is coming from the American Pavilion, the World's Fair that opens in Knoxville, Tennessee, today. Two nights ago I went on national television asking you to help us get a bipartisan budget passed in this Congressnot just any budget, but a budget that will hold down your taxes and get spending under control so we can reduce deficits, interest rates, and put unemployed Americans back to work. Let me just say, your calls and telegrams really warmed my heart. You came through with the greatest outpouring of support our administration has ever received, and you let us know that while our program did not in its first 30 weeks solve all the problems that have piled up for more than 30 years, it is beginning to work. Ernest Key wired us from Georgia: "Gas in Atlanta is 20 cents per gallon cheaper than this time last year. Inflation is almost cut in half. All of this began after October lst," he wrote. Well, October 1st was the start of our program. Hazel Quinn from Texas said, "As a senior citizen living on social security, your program is working to our benefit. Groceries have remained stable." John McMullen from Michigan told us that, "The other philosophy of tax and spend has a record of failure. Fight on," he said. Well, we will. We're seeing signs that the economy is ready to turn up. The record high interest rates we inherited nearly wrecked the housing industry, but as we've begun to bring those rates down, housing starts have increased steadily over the last 5 months. Airline travel, an indicator of future business activity, is up. There'll be an increase in automobile production in the second quarter of 1982. Another very important signAmericans are starting to save again. In the 6 months since that first 5-percent phase of our tax cut took effect, the rate of personal savings has risen to 5.7 percent from 5.1 percent for the year before. This means billions more in the capital pool to finance new investments, jobs, and economic growth. It also indicates lower interest rates ahead. We can do even better if you help us protect the first decent tax incentives for your familiesthe 10 percent cut in July and the one in 1983the first since John F. Kennedy's tax cut nearly 20 years ago. Yes, our tax cut is big, and yet it barely offsets the enormous increase in taxes built into the system in 1977. That was the biggest single tax increase in our history, and there are more installments of that yet to come in the next couple of years. We must be fair-to all our people. We're devoting one of the largest shares in the history of the Federal budget to assisting low-income Americans. But let's ask ourselves, where was the fairness in those bankrupt spending policies that gave us double-digit inflation, record interest rates, and a trillion-dollar debt? Where is the fairness now if we make even more painful the highest peacetime tax burden we've ever known? We're not going to do that. With your support, with responsible Republicans and Democrats working together, we can pass a good budget that will help taxpayers more than it hurts them. Last year with your help we passed a budget bill that lowered the spending increase by more than $30 billion. How big would the projected deficits be if that hadn't been done? Those who fought and voted against those savings are fighting against the additional savings that we've proposed for 1983. It's extremely difficult for the Congress to withstand the pressures for more spending. That's why I asked Congress to pass, as soon as possible, a constitutional amendment to require balanced Federal budgets, and that's why I'm appealing to all of you at the grass roots. Start putting pressure on the Congress now. Let's find out who's hiding behind the rhetoric of balanced budgets but is unwilling to make the cuts in spending needed to bring them about. There are now two resolutions pending, one in the House and one in the Senate, that enjoy strong support and that would lead to such a constitutional amendment. They would require the Congress to adopt a balanced statement of taxes and spending each year. But the growth in revenues could not exceed the prior year's growth in national income. In other words, it would contain a limitation so that you couldn't just have a balanced budget by always sending the bill to the taxpayers for whatever the deficit might be. A balanced budget amendment would have. to be ratified by three-fourths of the States. The Congress could approve a deficit, but only by a 60-percent vote of the full membership of both the House and Senate. I'm convinced that most of you do support the need for a constitutional amendment. After my speech night before last, the public response was more than 7 to i in favor of the idea. Government must stay within the limit of its revenues. This is not a political issue between parties. It's an issue simply of sense versus nonsense, of endless red ink versus lasting recovery. With your voices and your support good sense will prevail. Thank you, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's just possible that you may have heard or read that there's some talk in Washington about a budget. If so, you've also heard a few things that aren't true. For openers, it's just a plain falsehood to say, as our opponents in Congress and much of the press are saying, that the budget the Senate Budget Committee approved last Wednesday night is going to reduce social security payments. It does nothing of the kind. That budget specifically states that the 7.4-percent cost-of-living increase in social security benefits due July 1st will be added to the checks beginning July 1st, and that increase will be the only change in those checks. Those who've rushed to face the TV cameras or get their names in newsprint by frightening our social security recipients should be ashamed of themselves. Let me repeat what I've said before. I will protect the benefits of social security recipients now and in the future. The second thing, not quite so urgent, that needs correcting is some misinformation about our original budget proposal, which I submitted in February, and the projected budget deficits for the next 3 years. For some reason or lack of reason, the news media and some Congressmen have repeatedly declared that my February budget proposal contained a $182 billion deficit. Budgets don't contain deficits. Deficits are the difference between expected tax revenues and proposed spending. A budget either adds to it or reduces it. We plan to do the latter. Both my February proposal, which the Congress refused to act on, and the one approved by the committee Wednesday night would, if adopted, drastically reduce the deficits. The $182 billion projected for 1983 will be reduced to $106 billion by the Senate budget. The deficits projected for 1984 and '85 will be reduced from $216 billion and $233 billion to $69 billion and in 1985 only $39 billion. That is a $417 billion cut in the deficits over 3 years. In plain language, the budget which I worked out with the Republican members of the Senate committee reverses an ongoing increase in deficits and sets us on a sure road to a balanced budget in just a very few years. You remember, of course, the great to-do and the hysteria about our budget a year ago, the talk of budget cuts that would punish the needy and helpless. You're hearing the same thing now about the new budget for 1983 and whether we can afford further budget cuts without doing harm to our social programs. Well, what budget cuts? Where do the cuts come from? The 1981 budget we inherited was 657.2 billion. Our first budget, the one we had all the fuss about last year, was $728.9 billion. That's an increase of $71.7 billion over the preceding yearhardly what you'd call a cut. Yes, there were reductions of $35.2 billion, but they were reductions only in what had been assumed would be the annual increase in spending. We thought a $71.7 billion increase was enough. Without those $35 billion cuts, the present 1982 budget would be nearly as big as the budget we've proposed for next year. The 1983 budget, approved by the Senate committee last Wednesday, calls for spending $779 billion. That's an increase over this year of $50.2 billion. Back in 1980 budgets were increasing by 17 percent. When it is passed, the 1983 budget increase will be a little less than 7 percent. This reduction in the rate of government growth, we think, is what you sent us here to do. Now, I know it's hard hearing all these numbers to keep things straight, but the bottom line is that all the so-called budget cuts have been reductions only in the rate of increase usually in what Congress refers to as the "uncontrollables." Our proposed budget for next year, the one passed by the Senate committee, is $122 billion more than was spent in 1981. Those who've been opposing our budgetsthis one and the one last yearwould have had an increase of more than 170 billion if they'd have their way. There've been no cuts in the budgets. There have only been smaller increases than some of our big spenders would have preferred, coupled with what we've done, our tax cuts, to allow you to keep more of what you earn. Another subject: Yesterday we awoke to the news that unemployment had gone to the highest levels since 19419.4 percent. Well, let me just first tell you how I feel about unemployment. This is the problem above all which must be solved. Maybe those of us who went through the Great Depression have some kind of complex, but to me as long as there is one single person able and willing to work but unable to find work, that is too high an unemployment rate. I wonder though if the news media couldn't serve us better if they would give us more of the statistical information on unemployment provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Let me explain. The rise in the unemployment rate from 9 to 9.4 percent is in what are called the seasonally adjusted figures. Now, I'm not sure that we live in a seasonally adjusted world. Every month, the Bureau also publishes the unadjusted figures. I feel these latter figures should not be buried or ignored by the press. If they weren't of some importance, the Bureau wouldn't release them along with the seasonally adjusted. Now, what's this all about? Well, the adjusted figures are given for what should be the rate of unemployment and employment for each month, based on the figures for previous years. Now, I know I'm running the risk of oversimplifying, but I'm also running out of time. The unadjusted figures are simply the actual count of how many are employed and how many are unemployed in a certain month. Under the seasonally adjusted figures, unemployment, as we know, went up to 9.4 percent in April, higher than the March figure of 9 percent. And that, of course, is bad news. But according to the unadjusted figures, there were 400,000 more people actually working in April than in March and 300,000 fewer unemployed. Likewise, when the figures were announced a month ago, unemployment increased from March over February, according to the adjusted figures. And yet by the actual count, there were 525,000 more people working in March than February and 88,000 fewer unemployed. Now, I'm sure that next month when 750,000 or more young people are suddenly out of school, the adjusted figures might look better than the unadjusted. But shouldn't we be allowed to see both? Regardless, the figures are sad. And something must be done and can be done about unemployment if Congress will get off the dime and adopt the deficit-reducing budget it now has before it. Interest rates will come down when it does, and so will unemployment. This is no time for politics as usual. There are too many people hurting. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today marks the United States' 33d observance of Armed Forces Day, a tradition begun by President Truman to honor the men and women who serve our country in uniform. I want to take this occasion to reflect on the job they're doing and what it means to us. One of the oldest truths in the world is that nothing worth having is cheap. And many times, the greater the good, the higher its cost. Keeping America free has cost us dearly over the centuries. Since 1776 we as a nation have lost thousands of lives and suffered thousands of injuries to guarantee our freedom. Preserving the peace also requires the daily toil of millions of men and women who, without fanfare and glory, serve to protect our freedom and security. The men and women in our armed services are our final protection against those who wish us ill. The soldier, the sailor, the airman, and the marine in the United States and around the world are the ultimate guardians of our freedom to say what we think, go where we will, choose who we want for our leaders, and pray as we wish. It is sad that these rights, which should belong to all people, are not fully enjoyed by most of the human family. It is sadder still that some in the world view such freedom as a threat to their right to rule over their fellow citizens, and so long as that's true, we can't afford to take our freedom for granted. It cannot survive without protection. And for their role in protecting our freedoms, we honor the members of our volunteer Armed Forces today. Their jobs are difficult, requiring judgment, technical know-how, endurance, and in many cases exposure to danger. We ask them to put in long hours under trying conditions. Many serve far from their homes and families, prepared, if need be, to make the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. In short, they give us their all. So, I would like to thank them today: the Army tank crew member in Germany or Korea, responsible for maintaining a 55-ton machine so that it's ready at a moment's notice; the sailor in the Indian Ocean who's been away from home for 4 months and is working 18 hours a day in a hot engine room or carrying chocks for returning aircraft; the Air Force security policeman guarding our nuclear alert aircraft in the Texas heat or the North Dakota winter; the Marine squad leader on Okinawa working with his men to provide the most efficient combat team in the world. All these people and the rest of their comrades in arms we thank today. There is another group which deserves special thanksthe wives of our servicemen, wives who take care of the families and raise the children while their husbands are at sea or stationed far away, and wives who have left our shores to be in a faraway land with their husbands.. I had a letter the other day from one young wife describing what life was like where they were stationed. I could read homesickness between the lines, but not one word of complaintonly great pride in what her husband is doing. Their contribution is critical; the separation, the long hours, the hard work, and, up until recently, the low payall these have been burdens to them as well. The understanding and encouragement they give our servicemen is something we must all be grateful for. So, on behalf of all you listening, I want to take these few minutes today to thank our men and women in uniform and their families and to ensure them their government and their fellow citizens are determined to provide them with the equipment, training, and, just as importantly, the respect they have so richly earned. With their help, the United States remains at peace. Our allies enjoy the same benefit. Our national determination to defend freedom at the borders where it's threatened is fully matched by the quality and spirit of the more than 2 million soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who proudly wear the American uniform. I received another letter from one of our ambassadors in Europe. He wrote that a 19-year-old trooper in our armored cavalry had asked that he send me a message. It was: "Tell the President we're proud to be here, and we ain't scared of nothing." In James Michener's book "The Bridges at Toko-Ri," he writes of an officer waiting through the night for the return of planes to a carrier as dawn is coming on. And he asks, "Where do we find such men?" Well, we find them where we've always found them. They are the product of the freest society man has ever known. They make a commitment to the militarymake it freely, because the birthright we share as Americans is worth defending. God bless America. Thanks for tuning in. I'll be with you again next Saturday. Until then, God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Let's talk about the budget, the one subject that most directly affects your pocketbooks. Now, before you say, "This is where I came in," there has been a new development. We're making some progress toward a budget agreement that will hold down your taxes and get government spending under control. This is the one sure way we can keep inflation coming down, bring interest rates down as well as deficit spending and, most important, get our factories working again. Washington is a town that loves to spend moneyyour money. And if that isn't enough, they'll borrowa trillion dollars so far. As the French economist Bastiat said a long time ago, public funds seemingly belong to no one; the temptation to bestow them on someone is irresistible. I've said before, and let me say again, many of the spending proposals are motivated by sincere compassion, compassion we all feel. But pretty soon, if we aren't careful, we find ourselves inventing miracle cures for which there are no known diseases. That's what led to the situation in 1980, when Federal spending was increasing by 17 percent and the inflation rate was 12.4 percent. Interest rates reached a 100-year high of 21 1/2 percent. Obviously, something had to be done. To continue down the road we were on would have meant disaster. So, when we got here in January of 1981, we changed course. The 17 percent annual increase in government spending was cut almost in half. That 12.4 percent inflation rate has, for the last 6 months, been 2.8 percent. For the last 3 months, it has only been eight-tenths of 1 percent. Interest rates have come down some, but not enough yet to give the economy the boost it needs. As you know, we put in place tax incentives to help industry retool and modernize. And we've provided tax reductions for individuals so families could keep more of the money they earn. It's the first broad-based program to help all American taxpayers since President Kennedy's tax cut nearly 20 years ago. The average family will see its personal withholding rate cut by 20 percent in the next 14 months. There'll be a 10-percent cut July 1st and another in July of 1983. Even though we've only had the first installment, a 5-percent cut last October, we're seeing some signs of the incentives that a tax cut brings. Personal spending is up, and Americans are saving at a higher rate. Saving is one of the best ways people can help themselves and our country. As the pool of savings expands, interest rates come down and billions of dollars are made available for new investments, mortgages, and jobs. Yesterday, the United States Senate took another step to get spending under control. It passed a budget resolution that will reduce projected deficits $358 billion over the next 3 years. I'll be honest with you: I would have liked more reductions in spending, but at least it's another step in the right directionthe direction we started to go last year. In contrast to this responsible action by the Senate leadership, the leadership of the House of Representatives is trying to spend more and to eliminate $150 billion or so of your tax cut. Their idea for reducing the deficit, for example, is to eliminate the third year of the tax cut. They have another idea which somehow doesn't go with their claim of compassion. Once that final income tax cut is in place, we have one further step to go. We permanently index the income tax brackets against inflation. This, too, the spenders would take from you under the phony claim that it only benefits the rich. During these recent years of inflation, many of you have received cost-of-living pay increases. These don't make you better off. They just keep you eveneven, that is, till income tax time. Then you find those added dollars have pushed you into a higher tax bracket where you give the Government a greater percentage of your earnings and end up with less purchasing power, not more. Indexing prevents this from happening. Now, how can indexing hurt the workers and benefit the rich? It can't. And those who say it can are talking through their hats as usual. The rich and the high income earners are already in the top tax bracket. They also don't get cost-of-living increases. It's the wage earner who needs and, in our program, will get indexing. Incidentally, to be fair, I must say those same individuals who would take indexing away from you also do want to cut spendingdefense spending, and really only defense spending. Eliminating about 73 percent of our planned increase in the defense budget is their goal. Fortunately, some responsible Republicans and Democrats in the House have proposed a better plan, somewhat similar to the one passed by the Senate. It will preserve your tax cuts, reduce spending, and keep America strong. They are calling their plan the bipartisan recovery budget, and it will be voted on the first of this coming week. If you want interest rates to come down and the economy to get going, it wouldn't hurt if you told your Congressman to vote for the bipartisan recovery budget. But do so right away. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This has been a pretty hectic week and, I'm sorry to say, a bad one for all those Americans who are suffering because of the recession and the high interest rates. In contrast to the Senate, which has passed a responsible budget resolution calling for reductions in the projected deficits for the next 3 years of $358 billion, the majority leadership of the House of Representatives preferred to play politics. In a wild 5 or 6 days, they battled over which of half a dozen or so budgets we should have, plus 68 amendments, and then came up empty. They will now recess for a vacation and come back to start all over again. The President is required to submit a budget. Indeed, the budget is referred to as "the President's budget." The one we submitted in February was not one of those the House debated; yet, it was a result of 4 months work by the Office of Management and Budget, the entire Cabinet and their staffs, and the executive staff. The Congress simply ignored it. Nothing in our Federal Government is more in need of an overhaul than the ridiculous procedure we have misnamed "the budget process." Believing that a budget resolution calling for substantial savings could have an effect on the now unnecessarily high interest rates, I had hoped for cooperation with the Democratic leadership of the House. I thought if we could appear together before the cameras and announce that we had arrived at agreement on a deficit-reducing budget, it would serve notice to the money markets that we were united in an effort to keep inflation and, thus, interest rates down. A number of responsible Democrat Congressmen did share that hope. And with their help, we'll keep on fighting to get a responsible budget which protects your tax cuts and provides for a sound defense program. Next week, I leave for Europe for the first time as President. Exactly I week from today, while I'm in France, we'll commemorate the 35th anniversary of the Marshall plan, one of the greatest humanitarian ventures ever undertaken. America helped to rebuild the shattered economies of Western Europe and create a sense of community among Western nations which remains vital today. We must recognize that, whether in defense, political, or economic affairs, building successful foreign policy begins at home. It's for that reason we put in place an economic recovery program that, at long last, addresses the problems and abuses that have been undermining our economic health for decades. We're starting to get some encouraging news from those economic statistics that pour out of Washington. Interest rates are heading downnot enough, but it's a start. Inflation is substantially down, and real consumer incomes are rising. And on July 1st, thanks to the second installment of your tax cut, Uncle Sam's bite on your paycheck will be smaller, leaving you more to spend and save as you see fit. Serious problems remain, such as the need for a sound budget and, above all, unemployment, here and in Europe where it's at record levels. But we're making economic headway, and our common security requires that we continue to work together as friends and allies. That will be my main theme at the seven-nation economic summit in France next week. But prosperity has little meaning unless we also act to maintain our freedom and protect the peace. The remarkable strength and success of the Western Alliance in preserving the peace for over three decades lies in the fact that we're a voluntary grouping of free peoples, soon to be joined by still another new democracySpain. The overriding success of NATO is that for almost 40 years, Europe has been at peace. To lay the basis for another generation of peace and prosperity, I'll meet with my 15 NATO colleagues in Bonn, the capital of the Federal Republic of Germany. Our allies know that America has both the will and the resources to defend itself and to live up to its commitments. Last November 18th, we offered to eliminate all of our Pershing II and ground-launched cruise missiles if the Soviets eliminate their SS-4, 5, and 20 missiles, now targeted on our allies. This offer has the strong support of our NATO allies and has been spelled out in detail at the U.S.-Soviet negotiating table in Geneva. In my recent speech at Eureka College, I presented a proposal for substantial reductions in strategic arms. We and our allies hope the Soviets will respond positively, and we're prepared to begin STARTthat's Strategic Arms Reduction Talksimmediately. But arms control can't happen in a vacuum. Over the past decade, the Soviet Union has engaged in a pattern of direct and indirect aggression and suppression in places as varied as Afghanistan, Poland, and Latin America, and that's made it harder for progress in arms control. We must always remember that, in dealing with the condition in the world today, Western solidarity and defense preparedness are essential to meaningful arms control negotiations. That's the message I'll take with methe message of a strong, free alliance, working together to protect its freedom and seek meaningful negotiations to build a more peaceful world. I'm optimistic for the future of our partnerships and the future of freedom. The values for which we and our fellow democracies stand are of enduring and universal worth. Ours is a mission for peace and freedom through Western unity and strength, and with your prayers, it will succeed. Next Saturday, I'll be talking to you from Europe. Thank you, and God bless you.\par
Good day to you all in America: Maybe I should say "bonjour." I'm speaking to you from the Palace of Versailles right outside Paris, France, and I'm not over here on a vacation. Along with the leaders of the other democratic industrial nations, I'm attending an economic summit, the eighth one in as many years. Versailles holds significance for the American people beyond its art treasures and architecture. This imposing structure has strong links to our own history. Within these walls Louis XVI and Benjamin Franklin concluded an alliance without which our Revolution's outcome might have been very different. And in 1783 the Treaty of Versailles, which led to the formal recognition of America's independence from England, was signed here. Now, I don't want to give you a history lesson, but the Versailles Peace Conference, which settled World War I, also greatly affected us as a nation. That conference marked America's emergence as a leader and a world power. All these historical links between the United States and Versailles involve alliance and friendshipand really, that's what we're doing here again. This time we're discussing economic cooperation. I can assure you our partners are as determined as we are to overcome economic ills and create incentives for employment, investment, and productivity. And they also realize that economic growth is essential to the long term well-being of the industrial countries. In our meetings, we are trying to work out ways we can reach those goals together and without stepping on each others' toes. Yes, the countries attending the summit do have economic problems, but look how far we've come. Out of the ruins of the last great wars, we have built thriving democracies, solid friendships, and fundamentally sound economies. We have a right to be proud of our contributions to the economic strength of these industrial democracies. Today is the 35th anniversary of the Marshall plan, a program that shines as an example of how we've worked for the betterment of our sister democracies. I think it's appropriate that this anniversary occurs here among our friends. Our presence demonstrates America's continuing commitment to the democracies of Europe, Japan, and Canada. After we leave France we go to the Vatican to call upon His Holiness The Pope and to Rome to visit the Government and people of Italy. Italy is a [firm and warm] 1 friend of the United States, and we couldn't be in the area without stopping by. 1 White House correction. And then back on the plane, and we're off to England, a nation whose American ties are as thick as its fog. The next summit we attend is the NATO gathering in Bonn, West Germany. As you know, NATO's origins go back to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 which provided for a defensive military alliance of Western Europe and North America, as well as political and economic cooperation. It is this Alliance and its deterrent strength that has kept the peace for the past 33 years. At the NATO summit, we'll work to preserve that peace by strengthening our defenses and demonstrating the Alliance's firm resolve. The happiest event of the meeting will be Spain's addition to the list of NATO members. A democratic country has freely chosen to join other nations in an alliance for their common defense. This has real significance. Did any nation in Eastern Europe freely choose to join the Warsaw Pact? Not one. Just as it's fitting that the anniversary of the Marshall plan occurs during the economic summit, it's also meaningful that NATO meets the week of the D-Day anniversary. One lesson of D-Day is as clear now as it was 38 years ago: Only strength can deter tyranny and aggression. The dawn that rose on the English Channel that June morning revealed a horizon alive with thousands of ships, the largest armada in history. From England, the long-awaited message went around the world. Under the command of General Eisenhower, allied naval forces supported by strong air forces began landing allied armies on the northern coast of France. It was a simple statement, but the operation had been years in the planning. In the United States, the news came in the middle of the night. But here and there in sleepy towns, lights, nonetheless, came on. President Roosevelt called the people to prayer. "Almighty God, our sons, the pride of our nation, this day have set out upon a mighty endeavor .... " Well, it was a mighty endeavor, an endeavor of liberty, sacrifice, and valor. As we honor these men, I pledge to do my utmost to carry out what must have been their wishthat no other generation of young men would ever have to repeat their sacrifice in order to preserve freedom. This is the last of this series of radio broadcasts, but I'll be back before too long. Until then, thanks for listening, and God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans, 206 years ago one of history's greatest adventures began when a small band of patriots in Philadelphia resolved to stake their alltheir lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honorfor freedom and independence. On that distant day America was born. Our country has been an inspiration for free men and women around the world ever since. The Scriptures tell us that "Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty." And for more than two centuries now our blessed land has grown and prospered, guided by a deep faith in the Almighty and an unquenchable thirst for freedom. As George Washington once wrote to another of the Founding Fathers, James Madison, "Liberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth." Thanks to the faith and fortitude of our ancestors, freedom has flowered on our shores and has brought a legacy of liberty and opportunity to wave after wave of immigrants from every quarter of the globe. In war and peace, in good times and bad, each generation of Americans has passed on the torch of freedom. Some of our ancestors faced trials that we will never knowthe snows of Valley Forge; the crucible of a bitter, bloody civil war; and the incredible hardships endured in taming a savage wilderness. But the spirit of determination and love of country that saw them through to victory still beats in American hearts today. We, too, face strong challenges to our free, abundant way of life. America is at peace, but we live in a troubled world. American abundance is still the marvel of mankind, but we still face serious economic and social problems. Far more important, though, is the fact that, as a free people, we have both the means and the vision needed to solve our problems peacefully, fairly, and democratically. Because we are a free people we can work together voluntarily in a way no system based on tyranny ever will. That always has been and always will be America's ultimate strength. In the words of Dwight Eisenhower, "Free men do not lose their patience, their courage, their faith because the obstacles are mountainous, the path uncharted. Given understanding, they invariably rise to the challenge." So, on this special day, the birthday of our nation, in the midst of all the joyous celebrations let us take a moment to remember the debt of thanks we owe to those who came before us, to the same God who guides us all, and to the spirit of faith and patriotism which still makes America "the land of the free and the home of the brave." Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.\par
My fellow Americans: Hello again. It's great to be back speaking to you over weekly radio. I hope this is the first of many broadcasts to come. I've missed these weekly visits. Just 12 days ago, I went on television to ask your support for a bipartisan tax reform and spending reduction bill. As you'll recall, I told you I had to swallow hard to support that bill myself. I didn't like the idea of revenue increases and still don't. But to get the spending cuts which I think most of us want and which we must have to reduce deficits, keep interest rates going down, and get the unemployed back to work, we had to accept the increased revenues. But I argued then and I repeat now: Most of the revenue part of that bill was not really a tax increase at all, but a reform of existing tax laws. The tax cut passed last year remains the biggest tax cut in history. Even with the $99 billion increase, the tax cut over the next 3 years will amount to $335 billion. The savings to the average American family this year is $400; next year it will be $788. Even more important, however, we'll reduce the deficits over these next 3 years by $378.5 billion. If we stay on course and work together, we can look to a day when we can start reducing that trillion-dollar debt. And I think you like that "working together" idea. I received a letter just the other day from a lady in Florida. I hope she won't mind if I share it with you. Patricia Morgan writes that she sees unity among us again, the kind of unity we had during World War IIwe Americans, all pulling together. That's what America is. That is our power. Patricia Morgan, I couldn't agree more. American power is reasserting itself. The day before yesterday, the Federal Reserve lowered the discount rate to 10 percentthe lowest it has been in 2 years. Double-digit inflation, once 12.4 percent, has been for the last 7 months only 5.4 percent. The prime interest rate, 21.5 percent a year and a half ago, is now 13.5 percent and very probably going lower. The other day, the Security Savings and Loan of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, made $100 million available for home mortgages at 11.9 percent interest. And we've just seen a week-long breaking of virtually every record on Wall Street for trade in stocks and bonds. No, we're not out of the woods yet. But we can maintain this momentum, reopen factory gates, rebuild America, and make this country number one againnot overnight, of course, but slowly, surely, we can do it. It all hinges on one question: Do we as a nation have the unshakable determination to get Federal spending under control once and for all? With 20 unbalanced budgets in the last 21 years, the burden of proof is on us. We need a constitutional check against red-ink spending. Four of five of you support this idea. The Senate recently passed a bill that takes us one step closer to such a constitutional amendment. It is now up to the House leadership to make sure the full House votes on this issue as soon as possible in this session of the Congress. If not, you, the voters, will have an opportunity in November to make your feelings heard about that. On the subject of spending, though, I can't wait until November. A few days ago a supplemental appropriations bill to fund several programs and agencies for the rest of this fiscal year was sent to me for signature or veto. The legislation contained funding to meet payrolls of the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies. It also included a vital new program we've sought that is essential to our hemispheric solidarity and securitythe Caribbean Basin Initiative. But it also contained funding for several things I've vetoed already as being unnecessary and was almost a billion dollars over budget for domestic programs. We've gone on record as committed to reduce projected deficits by $380 billion over the next 3 years. I believe that commitment begins with holding the line on a budget that has little more than a month to run. So even though it means delay in getting legislation I believe is vital to our nation's welfare, I have therefore vetoed that supplemental appropriations bill. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm glad to join all of you on this final weekend of the summer. Family vacations are now ending, kids are going back to school, and communities all over the Nation are preparing for Labor Day parades. And, by the way, this year marks the 100th anniversary of the first Labor Day parade. It isn't true that I was in that first parade; I've just read about it. On Monday, we celebrate the dignity and productivity of America's working people. Our country has prospered because we're a nation of workers, and today there are nearly 100 million at workmore than 100 million according to the unadjusted figures and 99.8 million in the seasonally adjusted figures. Now, if that confuses you, well, I'm confused, too. Unfortunately, on this Labor Day, however, too many of our fellow citizens are unemployed. That's a terrible word, "unemployed." It means hardship, uncertainty, frustration, helplessness. Many who are unemployed feel caught up in something they don't understand and over which they have no control. And they're right. It's not the fault of the laid-off fellow in Detroit that he's out of work. It's not his fault the autos aren't rolling down the assembly line. It's not the fault of the unemployed mother in Delaware that the printing plant closed down, throwing her out of a job. The fact is unemployment has been gaining on us for years. Since 1976 the unemployment rate in this country has averaged over 7 percentfar higher than in earlier postwar years. It was only 2.9 percent in 1953. I'm convinced that in these last few decades the increased intervention by government in the marketplace, tax policies that took too great a percentage of overall earnings, plus burdensome and unnecessary regulations reduced economic growth and kept us from creating new jobs for newcomers entering the job market. Today the unemployment rate is 9.8 percent, and still the number of people with jobs is a higher percentage of those of working age than we had in times of full employment-higher than in 1953 when, as I said, unemployment was only 2.9 percent. I guess what I'm trying to point out is that our unemployment problem is due to more than just the present recession. We must not only work our way out of the recession, we must adopt policies that will stimulate economic growth and create new jobs for the increased numbers entering the job market. This is the goal of our economic recovery program. Yes, it marks a decided turnaround from government tax-and-spend policies of the past four decadesdeliberately so. And I believe it'll work. Indeed, the signs are there that it's beginning to work. Last week I called attention to the decline in interest rates21 1/2 percent down to 13 1/2 percent; inflation down from 12.4 percent to 5.4 percent since the first of the year. A family of four with a $15,000 income has $1,000 more in purchasing power than it would have if inflation had stayed at 12.4 percent. Now, I know this is hard to see because prices keep going up. But they aren't going up as fast or as much as they were. What we're all waiting for is that zero rate when they stay where they are or even drop a little. Well, that, too, is what our program is designed to accomplish. And the leading economic indicators by which we know whether the economy is improving or getting worse have climbed for the fourth month in a row. That hasn't happened for a long time. Clearly, the most important question now before us is whether we have the will and determination to hold our course. The next test will come when the Congress returns to Washington and decides whether to sustain my veto of a supplemental spending bill that would drive up spending once again. I hope we can work together to develop a more responsible bill. In the meantime, I hope you'll join me this Labor Day weekend in saluting the workers of America. And while we're doing that, perhaps we can spare a moment of prayer for some workers in another country. Here in America on Labor Day, we hold parades to support the principles of freedom. In Poland a few days ago, the people peacefully gathered to mark the second anniversary of Solidaritya labor movement which revived our hope that nonviolent change and basic human rights could come to a closed Communist community. Their parade was met with guns, concussion grenades, tear gas, and water cannons. As we attend our parades and picnics, let us remember how fortunate we are to be a free people. Let us remember the handwritten prayer that was recently found in an alcove of a Polish church. It read, "Thank you, Lord, that into this temple I may bring verses. It's the only place in our homeland where every Pole feels free and where he may evoke his pain. I beg you to give my country the strength to endure." Well, let us in America be thankful for the strength of our free labor movement. May it long endure. Thanks for listening, and God bless you. I'll be back next week at this same time.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I want to talk with you about a subject that's been very much on my mind, even as we've been busy with budgets, interest rates, and legislation. It's a subject I know you've been thinking about too crime in our society. Many of you have written to me how afraid you are to walk the streets alone at night. We must make America safe again, especially for women and elderly who face so many moments of fear. You have every right to be concerned. We live in the midst of a crime epidemic that took the lives of more than 22,000 people last year and has touched nearly one-third of American households, costing them about $8.8 billion per year in financial losses. During the past decade alone, violent crime rose by nearly 60 percent. Study after study shows that most serious crimes are the work of a relatively small group of hardened criminals. Let me give you an example-subway crime in New York City. Transit police there estimate that only 500 habitual criminal offenders are responsible for nearly half the crimes in New York's subways last year. It's time to get these hardened criminals off the street and into jail. The primary responsibility for dealing with these career criminals must, of course, rest with local and State authorities. But I want you to know that this administration, even as it has been battling our economic problems, is taking important action on the Federal level to fight crime. As Attorney General Smith pointed out recently, an important part of the problem is that Americans are losing faith in our courts and our entire legal system. Nine out of 10 Americans believe that the courts in their home areas aren't tough enough on criminals. Another 8 out of 10 Americans believe that our criminal justice system does not deter crime. And these figures have gone up drastically in the last 10 or 15 years. We can and must make improvements in the way our courts deal with crime. The administration-backed omnibus anticrime bill, introduced in the Congress last year and given important leadership by men such as Senator Thurmond, would help to achieve this vital goal by cracking down on hardened criminals through important legal reforms. These include revising the bail system so that dangerous offenders, and especially big-time drug pushers, can be kept off our streets. We also want to stop abuse of the parole system by making jail sentences more certain. And we've been pushing for stronger criminal forfeiture laws, a powerful weapon that would take a lot of the profit out of drug pushing and other forms of organized crime. We've also asked the Congress for tougher Federal penalties for drug trafficking. Other important legislation would require a judge to take into account the suffering of the victim when it comes time to sentence a criminal, would make it a Federal crime to kill, kidnap, or assault senior Federal officials, and would extend the ability of the Federal Government to transfer property to the States, free of charge, for use as prison facilities. These are important and imaginative steps. They can strike a real blow against organized crime and professional criminals. Unfortunately, they have yet to be passed by the Congress. I urge the Congress to act promptly and favorably on these major initiatives against lawlessness in America. Every moment wasted is a moment lost in the war against crime. The day after tomorrow, Monday, I will send to the Congress another package of major anticrime measures. These will include suggested revisions of the exclusionary rule. Now, this is the rule that can force a judge to throw out of court on the basis of a small technicality an entire case, no matter how guilty the defendant or how heinous the crime. Our bill would stop this grievous miscarriage of justice by allowing evidence to be introduced where the police officer was acting in good faith. This position has already been taken by some enlightened Federal judges, and I'm asking the Congress to make it the law of the land. The measures I send to the Congress Monday will also include important revisions of Federal procedure that will cut down on interference by Federal courts in State criminal proceedings and reduce the great number of cases which now overburden our court system and slow the wheels of justice. And finally, we will press for commonsense revisions of the insanity defense, a defense that has been much misinterpreted and abused. I wish there was more time to talk with you about these steps and many others we're taking, such as our national strategy for fighting drug abuse. I'll have to save that for some of our future get-togethers. But in the meantime, I hope we can count on your support in our war on crime and our efforts to protect the innocent and put the professional criminals in jail where they belong. Working together we can make America safe again for all our people. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today is a special day for our citizens of Jewish faith. It's Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, marking the beginning of the year 5743 on the Hebrew calendar. So, to all of our friends and neighbors observing this holidayand speaking for all AmericansI want to wish a happy, peaceful, and prosperous New Year. Rosh Hashanah also reminds us of the rich and varied religious heritage we Americans are blessed with. More than any other nation, ours draws inspiration from the creeds of many peoples from many parts of the world. They came to our shores from different ports of origin at different times in our history. But all of themfrom the men and women who celebrated the first Thanksgiving more than three and a half centuries ago, to the boat people of Southeast Asiacame here with prayers on their lips and faith in their hearts. It's because of this shared faith that we've become, in the words of the Pledge of Allegiance, "one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." At every crucial turning point in our history Americans have faced and overcome great odds, strengthened by spiritual faith. The Plymouth settlers triumphed over hunger, disease, and a cruel northern wilderness because, in the words of William Bradford, "They knew they were pilgrims. So they committed themselves to the will of God and resolved to proceed." George Washington knelt in prayer at Valley Forge and in the darkest days of our struggle for independence said that "the fate of unborn millions will now depend, under God, on the courage and conduct of this army." Thomas Jefferson, perhaps the wisest of our Founding Fathers, had no doubt about the source from which our cause was derived. "The God who gave us life," he declared, "gave us liberty..." And nearly a century later, in the midst of a tragic and at times seemingly hopeless Civil War, Abraham Lincoln vowed "that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom." It's said that prayer can move mountains. Well, it's certainly moved the hearts and minds of Americans in their times of trial and helped them to achieve a society that, for all its imperfections, is still the envy of the world and the last, best hope of mankind. And just as prayer has helped us as a nation, it helps us as individuals. In nearly all our lives, there are moments when our prayers and the prayers of our friends and loved ones help to see us through and keep on the right path. In fact, prayer is one of the few things in this world that hurts no one and sustains the spirit of millions. The Founding Fathers felt this so strongly that they enshrined the principle of freedom of religion in the first amendment of the Constitution. The purpose of that amendment was to protect religion from the interference of government and to guarantee, in its own words, "the free exercise of religion." Yet today we're told that to protect that first amendment, we must suppress prayer and expel God from our children's classrooms. In one case, a court has ruled against the right of children to say grace in their own school cafeteria before they had lunch. A group of children who sought, on their own initiative and with their parents' approval, to begin the school day with a 1-minute prayer meditation have been forbidden to do so. And some students who wanted to join in prayer or religious study on school property, even outside of regular class hours, have been banned from doing so. A few people have even objected to prayers being said in the Congress. That's just plain wrong. The Constitution was never meant to prevent people from praying; its declared purpose was to protect their freedom to pray. The time has come for this Congress to give a majority of American families what they want for their childrenthe firm assurance that children can hold voluntary prayers in their schools just as the Congress, itself, begins each of its daily sessions with an opening prayer. With this in mind, last May I proposed to the Congress a measure that declares once and for all that nothing in the Constitution prohibits prayer in public schools or institutions. It also states that no person shall be required by government to participate in prayer who does not want to. So, everyone's rightsbelievers and nonbelievers alike-are protected by our voluntary prayer measure. I'm sorry to say that so far the Congress has failed to vote on the issue of school prayer. Jr:st this week, however, I asked Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker to bring this measure to a floor vote. I'm happy to say he told me he'll do everything he can to accomplish this. However, passage requires a vote by the House of Representatives, as well. So, I call on the House leadership to make an equal effort. Today, on one of the holiest days of one of our great religious faiths, I urge the Members of the Congress to set aside their differences and act on this simple, fair, and long-overdue measure to help make us "one Nation under God" again. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about a piece of news that spells real hope for everyone. I'm talking about the economic war we're waging together and winning against enemy number oneinflation. Memories fade quickly. Only a short time ago we were told double-digit inflation was here to stay for the rest of this decade. At one point in 1980, inflation was zooming at an annual rate of 18 percent. I'll always remember traveling this country and seeing how many people were frightened that our way of life was slipping away from us. And indeed, between 1978 and 1980 the buying power of the average weekly paycheck declined almost 9 percent. Putting food on the table, keeping families warm and healthy, filling our ears with gas, and, for our elders, preserving the value of pensions-all these things were getting harder and harder to do. I remember visiting one store in Lima, Ohio, in October 1980. It was Clyde Evans' grocery. I used a survey by Ohio State University and showed how inflation was robbing families of their purchasing power. For a typical family of four, $60 had purchased a week's supply of food in 1976. By 1980 that same $60 only bought, well, at best, a few days' worth. And by 1984, if there was no improvement in inflation, elderly Americans on fixed incomes would literally have gone hungry. That was the desperate situation we faced when our administration took over in January of 1981, and that's why we've had to make some tough, even unpopular decisions to get runaway spending under control. As I mentioned a moment ago, we're winning the war the experts said was hopeless. In these less than 2 years, inflation has been cut more than in half, down to 5.1 percent so far this year. I know this isn't easy for people to see. You go in to buy, and the price is higher than it was the last time. But it hasn't gone up as much as it did in each of those last few years. That's why, for the first time in quite a while, real after-tax income is increasing; your paycheck buys more than it did. Some of you are probably thinking, well, what concerns us today is jobs, and I agree. We have a bill in the Congress which will provide job training for a million unemployed people or more per year for permanent jobs in the private sector. This legislation is needed, but it's only a partial remedy. Let's remember why unemployment has been gaining on us, averaging over 7 percent since 1976. Rising inflation pushed up interest rates in the late 1970's, and together they hit us like a one-two punch, sending shock waves through the economy. It became more difficult for families to get home mortgages, for consumers to carry auto loans, for firms to modernize their machines and keep their product prices competitive. To make matters worse, as high inflation and interest rates were crippling the economy's ability to provide jobs, they were forcing more families to seek a second income. Well, this all came home to roost in 1980, when inflation reached double digits for the second straight year and interest rates soared to 21 1/2 percenttheir highest peak in more than a century. Again, that's the mess we inherited. I don't believe that it follows that those who took us to the edge of economic Armageddon are automatically best qualified to lecture us now on the most fair, effective way to end the crisis. And when those same individuals charge our administration fights inflation by putting people out of work, I say they're exploiting helpless people for their own political gain. It's the most cynical form of demagoguery. How does making people able to buy more cause some other people to lose their jobs? Creating more jobs requires getting interest rates down further and keeping them down, and that can only come from continued progress against inflation. We've beaten down those 21 1/2-percent interest rates to 13 1/2. And we canand must do better. But if the public senses we're giving up the fight against inflation, those who lend money will demand higher interest rates, and we'll be right back in the soup with even higher unemployment. There's only one major cause of our economic problems: government spending more than it takes in and sending you the bill. There's only one permanent cure: bringing government spending in line with government revenues. We have not had 21 red-ink budgets in 22 years because you the people are not taxed enough. The Government has run more than $1 trillion into debt because too many politicians spent too much of your money for too long. Many liberals have made it clear they want to take back the third year of your tax cut and the indexing. This will only give government more money to spend, weaken savings, and hurt those who need help mostlower- and middle-income taxpayers, the backbone of this country. Well, we're not going to let them do it. We need less spending. So far, I have not received for my signature one appropriations bill for the fiscal year that begins this coming Friday. The leadership in the House is also sitting on an historic measure already approved by the Senate and supported by 80 percent of the publica constitutional amendment requiring balanced budgets. This amendment offers us our best chance of getting control of runaway spending. It's tragic at this late date that those who controlled the Congress for so long and spent us to the brink of bankruptcy are still playing politics with these problems and the suffering they caused. Believe me, it's time they realized that much more than an off-year election is at stake. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
The President. My fellow Americans, those of you who tuned in a few weeks ago may remember that the topic of my broadcast was crime. Well, this week I'd like to narrow that subject down to drugs, an especially vicious virus of crime. In the last few days, I've had two reports on drugs in America. First, Nancy returned from a trip to Alabama, Mississippi, and Arkansas-one of the many trips she's made, talking to young people and their parents about the drug epidemic. Well, I thought it might be fitting if she told you herself of what she's learned about the drug problem. So, Nancy. Mrs. Reagan. Thank you. To everyone at home, I have to tell you that few things in my life have frightened me as much as the drug epidemic among our children. I wish I could tell you all the accounts I've heard&mdash;stories of families where lying replaces trust, hate replaces love; stories of children stealing from their mothers' purses; stories of parents not knowing about drugs, and then not believing that the children were on them, and finally not understanding that help was available. I've heard time and again of children with excellent grades, athletic promise, outgoing personalities, but who, because of drugs, became shells of their former selves. I won't burden you with all the terrifying statistics, but there's one that's especially troubling. While the health of most Americans has been improving, young people between 15 and 24 have a higher death rate than 20 years ago. And alcohol and drugs are one reason for this. But there are also some very positive signs on the prevention and treatment fronts, especially with the parents movement. People finally are facing up to drug abuse. They're banding together, and they're making real progress. And I just want to say a heartfelt "thank you" to all those people out there who are working so hard to get drug abuse under control. The President. Thank you, Nancy. Now, regarding the other report I mentioned. In the next few days we'll announce the administration's new strategy for the prevention of drug abuse and drug trafficking. This is a bold, confident plan, and I'm elated. For too long the people in Washington took the attitude that the drug problem was so large nothing could be done about it. Well, we don't accept this sit-on-your-hands kind of thinking. We've decided to do more than pay lip service to the problem, and we started where narcotics crime was the worst: south Florida. This garden spot had turned into a battlefield for competing drugpushers who were terrorizing Florida's citizens. I established a task force under Vice President Bush's leadership to help the citizens of south Florida fight back. As part of a coordinated plan, we beefed up the number of judges, prosecutors, and law enforcement people. We used military radar and intelligence to detect drug traffickers, which, until we changed the law, could not be done. We increased efforts overseas to cut drugs off before they left other countries' borders. Well, the results of our task force have been dramatic. The Vice President tells me drug-related arrests are up over 40 percent, the amount of marijuana seized is up about 80 percent, and the amount of cocaine seized has more than doubled. The important thing is we're hurting the traffickers. It's true that when we close off one place they can move somewhere else. But one thing is different now: We're going to be waiting for them. To paraphrase Joe Louis, they can run but they can't hide. The strategy I just received will help us duplicate the south Florida experience for the entire United States. We're undertaking a narcotics policy that might be termed "hot pursuit." We're not just going to let them go somewhere else; we're going to be on their tail. Now, you probably wonder why I'm so optimistic. Well, for the first time, the actions of the different Government agencies and departments dealing with narcotics are being coordinated. There are 9 departments and 33 agencies of Government that have some responsibility in the drug area, but until now, the activities of these agencies were not being coordinated. Each was fighting its own separate battle against drugs. Now, for the very first time, the Federal Government is waging a planned, concerted campaign. Previous administrations had drug strategies, but they didn't have the structure to carry them out. We now have that structure. In addition to the enforcement element, our strategy will also focus on international cooperation, education, and prevention-which Nancy's very interested in&mdash;detoxification and treatment and research. The mood toward drugs is changing in this country, and the momentum is with us. We're making no excuses for drugs&mdash;hard, soft, or otherwise. Drugs are bad, and we're going after them. As I've said before, we've taken down the surrender flag and run up the battle flag. And we're going to win the war on drugs. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday the Polish Government, a military dictatorship, took another far-reaching step in their persecution of their own people. They declared Solidarity, the organization of the working men and women of Poland, their free union, illegal. Yes, I know Poland is a faraway country in Eastern Europe. Still, this action is a matter of profound concern to all the American people and to the free world. Ever since martial law was brutally imposed last December, Polish authorities have been assuring the world that they're interested in a genuine reconciliation with the Polish people. But the Polish regime's action yesterday reveals the hollowness of its promises. By outlawing Solidarity, a free trade organization to which an overwhelming majority of Polish workers and farmers belong, they have made it clear that they never had any intention of restoring one of the most elemental human rightsthe right to belong to a free trade union. The so-called new trade union legislation under which this contrary and backward step has been taken claims to substitute a structure and framework for the establishment of free trade unions in Poland. But the free world can see this is only a sham. It is clear that such unions, if formed, will be mere extensions of the Polish Communist Party. The Polish military leaders and their Soviet backers have shown that they will continue to trample upon the hopes and aspirations of the majority of the Polish people. America cannot stand idly by in the face of these latest threats of repression and acts of repression by the Polish Government. I am, therefore, today directing steps to bring about the suspension of Poland's most-favored-nation-tariff status as quickly as possible. This will increase the tariffs on Polish manufactured goods exported to the United States and thus reduce the quantities of these goods which have been imported in the past. The Polish regime should understand that we're prepared to take further steps as a result of this further repression in Poland. We are also consulting urgently with our allies on steps we might take jointly in response to this latest outrage. While taking these steps, I want to make clear, as I have in the past, that they are not directed against the Polish people. We will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of Poland, through organizations such as Catholic Relief Service and CARE, as we have since the beginning of martial law. At the same time, I stand by my earlier offer to provide recovery assistance to help the Polish economy back on its feet, once Warsaw restores to the Polish people their human rights. There are those .who will argue that the Polish Government's action marks the death of Solidarity. I don't believe this for a moment. Those who know Poland well understand that as long as the flame of freedom burns as brightly and intensely in the hearts of' Polish men and women as it does today, the spirit of Solidarity will remain a vital force in Poland. Surely, it must be clear to all that until Warsaw's military authorities move to restore Solidarity to its rightful and hard-won place in Polish society, Poland will continue to be plagued by bitterness, alienation, instability, and stagnation. Someone has said that when anyone is denied freedom, then freedom for everyone is threatened. The struggle in the world today for the hearts and minds of mankind is based on one simple question: Is man born to be free, or slave? In country after country, people have long known the answer to that question. We are free by divine right. We are the masters of our fate, and we create governments for our convenience. Those who would have it otherwise commit a crime and a sin against God and man. There can only be one path out of the current morass in Poland, and that is for the military regime to stand up to its own statements of principle, even in the face of severe outside pressure from the Soviet Union; to lift martial law; release Lech Walesa and his colleagues now languishing in prison; and begin again the search for social peace through the arduous but real process of dialog and reconciliation with the Church and Solidarity. I join with my countrymen, including millions of Americans whose roots are in Poland, in praying for an early return to a path of moderation and personal freedom in Poland. Thanks for listening. I'll be back next week. Let Poland be Poland. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I am sorry for the delay in this broadcast, due to technical difficulties. I'm speaking to you from the White House over a special hookup with radio stations across the farm belt. I'd like to discuss with you for a few moments the plans our administration has to meet important agricultural challenges we face together. I'm talking about increasing American farm exports, restoring our reputation as reliable suppliers, and regaining our world market share. Before I do, may I just take a moment to congratulate you? Once again, you're making something look easy that would be considered a miracle almost anywhere else in the world. Farmers all over America are harvesting record crops. You know, I've always thought that when we Americans get up in the morning, when we see bacon, eggs, toast, and milk on our breakfast table, we should give thanks that our farmers are survivors. You are the real miracle workers of the modern worldkeepers of an incredible system based on faith, freedom, hard work, productivity, and profita system that feeds us and sustains millions of the world's hungry. Too often, people forget a basic fact of life: All those good things we enjoy come from the ache in your backs and your willingness to shoulder great personal risks. Right now, another fact of life in America's heartland is that things haven't been very good down on the farm. You who produce the food and fiber essential to life itself are carrying tremendous burdenssometimes impossible burdens. U.S. agriculture is in the grip of a prolonged economic recession that began in 1980. The record inflation and interest rates of the late seventies and that mistaken Soviet grain embargo laid the seeds for a very different, bitter kind of harvesta vicious cost-price squeeze and lost markets. Together, they eroded confidence and destroyed too many dreams for prosperity. I believe this government's proper role, indeed its only role, is to act as friend, partner, and promoter of American farmers and their products. I want with all my heart to see your burdens lifted, to see farmers who have given so much to America receive the rewards they deserve. As Dwight Eisenhower once said, "Without a prosperous agriculture, there is no prosperity in America." From the moment we arrived in Washington, we've been working to solve those long-neglected problems that were dragging America down. Like any small businessman, a farmer lives or dies on his ability to sustain an adequate cash flow, and when that cash flow is reduced to a trickle by high inflation and high interest rates, a farmer sometimes has no option but to shut down his operation. Add to all this your bumper crops, and we understand why the cost-price squeeze is so bad and threatens the survival of agriculture, America's bedrock industry. It's been tough, slow work, and as I told the Nation Wednesday night, we still have a long way to go. But we're beginning to make real progress on four of the five most serious problems we inherited. We are bringing down spending, bringing down inflation, bringing down interest rates, and reducing your taxes. You know, one of the parts of our tax program that I'm most proud of addresses a special problem for farmers. We don't think widows and children should lose what generations of love and toil created just to pay Uncle Sam a tax, so we took action to correct that. We increased the estate tax exemption to $600,000 by 1987, and we eliminated altogether the estate tax for a surviving spouse. I hope all these steps are beginning to bring some relief on your cost side of the equation. As for prices, well, there are really only two ways to increase farmers' incomesell more or produce less. Now, I'm not one who believes you should be cursed by your own success. The philosophy of this administration is to help farmers to succeed in the marketplace, not depend on the U.S. Treasury. Deciding how much to produce and how much to sell is best left to you. We, in turn, will make every effort to remove the barriers to the exporting of your products. So, that brings me back to what I mentioned at the outsetour initiatives to increase exports, restore our reputation as a reliable supplier, and regain our market share. As you know, our administration moved early on to end that grain embargo which had hurt farmers so badly. Before the Soviet embargo, American farmers were supplying about 70 percent of Soviet needs. After the embargo, our market share dropped to less than 25 percent. Other nations had quickly moved in to fill the gap left by the embargo, so that our farmers, and our farmers almost alone, bore the brunt of the embargo. This year, we've fought our way back to 35 percent of the Soviet market. We're on our way back up. We can and we will do better there and around the world. Nothing is more crucial to the long-term health of agriculture than restoring this nation's reputation as a reliable supplier of agricultural products around the world. During the past 20 months, we've pursued an agricultural export policy making three things plain: No restrictions will be imposed on farm exports because of rising domestic prices; no farm exports will be singled out as an instrument of foreign policy, except in extreme situations, and then only as part of a broad embargo supported by our trading partners; and world markets must be freed of trade barriers and unfair trade practices. On that last point, we've mounted a united front by the Departments of Agriculture, State, Treasury, Commerce, and the U.S. Trade Representative, to speak out and act against the unfair trade practices of our competitors abroad. We're committed to more open agricultural markets in all countries, and we're challenging others in negotiations, particularly our friends in Europe and Japan, to fully match this commitment. It's imperative that all of us work together to reduce the growing tide of protectionism and export subsidies overseas. If other countries can't understand an evenhanded approach is in everybody's best interest, if they're not willing to play by the rules of the game, then let there be no mistake: We must and we will counter with strong measures of our own to permit American farmers to realize the benefits of their extraordinary productivity. Now, in spite of my strong commitment, I know there is still concern in the farm community that we've not given sufficient assurance of delivery of our farm exports. I can understand farmers' skepticism. You've been burned so often in the past. But our new agricultural export policy means exactly what it says: We will honor our word. Today, I am directing Secretary of Agriculture Block to take two additional steps. Two weeks from now, U.S. representatives will meet with the Soviets in Vienna for talks concerning additional grain purchases beyond the 8 million metric tons stipulated in article i of the existing U.S.-U.S.S.R. grain agreement. I am instructing the Secretary to make available a total of 23 million metric tons for purchase during the October 1, 1982-September 30, 1983 time period. Second, the Secretary of Agriculture will extend to the additional purchases the same assurances of reliable delivery that the 8 million metric tons are afforded under article 2 of the agreement, if the U.S.S.R. will contract for the additional tonnage during the month of November, and provided that it is shipped within 180 days from the date of the contract. These same assurances, of course, also apply to soybean and other agricultural exports. We have a large crop. We need commitments to move that crop and strengthen markets. Now, of course, we can't guarantee the Soviets will make these purchases, but we know they're shopping, and they still have large needs. We want to demonstrate that actions speak louder than words, and we're taking tangible actions to restore this market. Year-in, year-out, there is no better, more reliable producer of food anywhere than the United States of America. Now, some will say that by offering to sell the Soviets more grain we're sending a weak signal. That's wrong. We're asking the Soviets to give us cash on the line for the food they buy. We're not providing them with any subsidies or pumping any Western currencies into Soviet pockets. It's always seemed ironic to me that many people who are so quick to sacrifice the interest of farmers in an effort to seem tough are unwilling to do the real things we need to send a signal of national will and strength. During the last decade, we had two grain embargoes. But during those same years we were also reducing our commitment to a strong national defense, while the Soviets were undertaking the most massive military buildup in history. We're not making that mistake in 1982; we have our priorities straight. I wish I could tell you today that we've turned everything around for American farmers. I can't. I can only say that we're doing everything we can, as rapidly as we can, to make things right. Thank you for keeping up the struggle. Thank you for your strength, your vision, and your faith. I know we can return prosperity to our heartland and to America. God has blessed us with a strong spirit and rich soil. With His help and yours we can make America once again the source of all the dreams and opportunities she was placed on this good Earth to provide. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's an old saying that "no news is good news." Well, I guess that's true sometimes. But still, it's good to be talking with you after a week of good news for the average American family. This troubled economy of ours isn't out of the woods yet. It takes more than 21 months to undo the piled-up damage of more than 20 years. But with your help, we're getting there. Last Wednesday night, on television, I tried to paint the big picture, to show where we are, how we got here, and what we're doing to make America well again. As I pointed out, from day one of this administration, we've been working hard to solve five big economic problems. Problem number one, government was taking too much of your money in high taxes. Number two, government was spending and borrowing too much money, including service on a trillion-dollar debt. This led to number three, backbreaking inflation, which added so much to the burden of millions of Americans trying to make ends meet. And, of course, inflation and government borrowing led to a fourth problem, the high interest rates that made it hard or impossible for people to afford the homes, the cars, the other purchases that keep our economy moving and provide jobsthe final problem. Well, step by step, we're licking those problems. We fought for and won a tax break that will bring down your income tax rates a total of 25 percent when the final installment goes into effect next July 1st. We've reduced the rate of increases in Federal spending by nearly two-thirds. What we're aiming for is to get the annual increase in spending below the annual increase in revenues which takes place as our economy grows. We've driven inflation back down into the single digits, from 12.4 percent in 1980 to just 5.1 percent so far this year. This has helped bring down those paralyzing interest rates from a peak of 21 1/2 percent in 1980 to 12 percent today. And just yesterday, we had another piece of good news. The Producer Price Index went down one-tenth of a percent last month, for an average of only 3.1 percent so far this year. If we can hold that rate steady through December, it will be the best performance in 10 years, and another important step toward the inflation-proof recovery we're all working so hard for. All of this means new hope, new cause for confidence, not just for the nearly 100 million Americans who are working today, and their families, but for retired citizens and others on fixed incomes who've suffered so much from inflation in recent years. As for the 11 million Americans still out of work, they will find jobs as the economy continues to heal. I don't mean to minimize the very real plight of the unemployed. But when we're told over and over again, as we have been in the last few days, that as of September 25th, 682,500 new claims for unemployment insurance were filed, shouldn't we also be told that at the same time 618,000 left the lists? We're winning the battle on four out of the five problems causing this recession. We've already floored inflation and sent those high interest rates reeling. And as surely as single-digit inflation started the interest rates tumbling, getting those interest rates back down to single digits will drive unemployment back down to single digits, too. Once we've done that, we'll have delivered a knockout blow to this bitter recession, the latest in a long series of recessions brought about because, until now, our leaders resorted to quick fixes and politics as usual, to treating the symptoms instead of the disease. Well, as I said last Wednesday, at my age I didn't come to Washington to play politics as usual or sweep problems under the rug where they would only get worse for those who came after. I came here to solve problems, not to add to them. And with your patience, faith, and, yes, courage, we've been able to lay the groundwork for a lasting recovery that will leave America stronger than ever and spare our children and grandchildren some of the things that we've had to endure because of the mistakes of the past. I don't use that word "courage" lightly. To me, one of the most inspiring things about this job is the chance it's given me to see how bravely Americans from all walks of life have responded to the problems we face. Your courage is one of the most precious gifts as a people, and it's seen us through many a storm. This is not the time to lose that couragejust when it's beginning to pay off. One man summed it up best nearly 50 years ago, when America faced a far deeper economic crisis than the one we're working our way out of todaythe Great Depression of the thirties. "The only thing we have to fear," said Franklin Roosevelt, "is fear itself." He spoke that line in his Inaugural Address in March of 1933 We've been told that line was not intended to be a major point in his address. Still, those were the words more than any others on that March morning that gave back to the American people their courage, their faith in themselves and in this blessed country. It is the best remembered line of his speech. In times of trouble, fear is a disease of the spirit that can slow recovery and be exploited by those who are more interested in taking advantage of our problems than in helping to solve them. And there are such people. Some are seeking political profit, and others are just naturally given to doomcrying. Now, I'm not just whistling past the graveyard; nor am I trying to belittle the grief and pain of you, who through no fault of your own, are out of work. I'm saying the downbeat chorus we're being subjected to by so many these days can rob us of our courage. We must not let that happen. Unemployment such as we have now is a terrible thing, but it may not be our number one problem. Our number one problem may be fearfear that we're adrift, that there is no plan, that no one is doing anything to make things better. Well, that's not true. The improvement in inflation, interest rates, the increase in real wages, in savings and in retail auto sales, up 8 1/2 percent in September, the surging stock marketall these are the result of a plan, a plan that is working and that offers hope to you who are unemployed. Hang in there. I know from personal experience how tough it can be, but don't give up. And don't listen to those crepe hangers who are howling like a dog sitting on a sharp rock. They howl, but they haven't proposed one thing they'd do to make things better. The truth is things are being done with no help from them, and things are getting better. The time for confidence, the time for courage, is now. Thanks to you, we are nearing the end of a long and painful ordeal. With your prayers and support, with your confidence and courage, we can make the differencenot just for ourselves, but for generations of Americans to come. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Over the years, we Americans have faced many hard choices, and politics being politics, there have been a few who have tried to obscure the issues and exploit them for political gain. But time after time, the common sense of the American voter has outsmarted those who would mislead us. Abraham Lincoln had a simple motto: "Trust the people." I don't think anyone since has improved on that advice. Given the facts, the American people can be counted on to make the right decision. So today, in the midst of this noisy election year, let's clear the air for a moment and talk facts, not opinions. Specifically, let us expose six big myths that are being spread by people who ought to know better. Myth number oneand I'm sure you've heard this one again and againis that increases in defense spending in recent years are one of the main causes of projected Federal deficits. The fact is that the defense share of the Federal budget and the gross national product has been shrinking sharply over the last 20 years. It was 9 percent of the gross national product in 1960. This year, it's only 6 percent. It's nondefense spending that's been growing. During the last 22 years, while defense spending was shrinking as a part of the gross national product, nondefense spending nearly doubledfrom 9 percent of the gross national product to nearly 18 percent. If it weren't for the drastic growth in nondefense spending, we'd actually have a big budget surplus today. Myth number two is a whopper you've been hearing a lot from the people who'd like to take back your tax cuts. They claim that the other cause of big Federal deficits is the well-deserved tax relief we won for you over the objections of the big spenders in the Congress. That just isn't true. The reality is that the effect of the tax cuts enacted in 1981 was mainly to hold tax rates even, to keep the hard-pressed American taxpayer from being bled even drier through further hikes and the bracket creep caused by inflation. Between 1980 and '85, taxes, as a share of the gross national product, will drop by less than I percentage point. The real culprits for those whopping deficits are the same congressional big spenders who voted down the balanced budget amendment. Myth number threeand I'm sure you've heard this one, toois the charge that this administration has slashed Federal social spending and caused a lot of human hardship. Well, that sounds bad. But is it true? The answer is no. This administration is spending approximately three times as much on nondefense spending as the Kennedy administration spent in 1963, and that's even after you adjust the figures for inflation. Yes, we're doing everything we can to cut waste and root out cheaters. But the budget for the Department of Health and Human Services is greater than at any time in America's history. It amounts to 36.2 percent of the budget. It was only 33.8 percent of the 1980 budget. There are only two budgets in the world larger than our '83 Health and Human Service budget of $274.2 billion-the total budget for the United States and the Soviet Union. It's easy to see how the myths persist. Not too long ago, a family of six in a Northeastern State was portrayed on television as destitute. That family was eligible for programs totaling $1,159 per month, tax free. Myth number four is an especially cynical one because it tries to exploit the real suffering many people are feeling and feeds on the kind of fear and despair that I spoke of last week and which can slow the recovery we all want. It claims that the 11 million people who are currently unemployed won't find jobs until after the recession is completely over and we're back to full recovery. In effect, this myth cruelly condemns millions of our friends, neighbors, and family to a future without hope. The reality is a lot better. Bad as current unemployment is, in most individual cases it's a temporary problem. For example, of all the workers who became unemployed last July, one-third were no longer unemployed within 30 days, and two-thirds were off the unemployment list within 60 days. Now, true, some of those people had withdrawn from the job market. But the majority of them had found new jobs and were helping achieve the economic recovery we're all working so hard for. Myth number five would have you believe that America's best days are behind us, that we're falling behind our foreign competitors in our standard of living. Well, what's the fact behind the myth? The good old U.S.A. is still the most productive of the world's major industrial countries. In 1980, the last year with reliable information, real per capita income in the United States was 14 percent better than Germany, 20 percent better than France, and a whopping 35 percent ahead of Japan. In the last 2 years, with those countries suffering from the same worldwide recession we're experiencing, the United States is still number one. And finally, there's the biggest and cruelest myth of allthe doom-peddling argument that there is no end in sight for this bitter recession. The reality behind the myth: We aren't out of the woods yet, but we're getting there. Inflation and interest rates are down. Yesterday a leading bank lowered its prime rate to 11 1/2 percent, and others will follow. Heal wages and retail sales are moving up. Housing starts and ear sales, so vital to recovery, are both heading up again. And the strong surge of investor confidence we've witnessed in recent weeks means new growth for our economy and more jobs for our people. It's been a long, hard fight, going on for much more than the last 2 years, and it isn't over yet. But thanks to your patient courage and your ability to see the truth behind the political fairy tales, America is on the road to lasting recovery. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I've received a letter declaring that our economic recovery program must be changed before it causes "more economic destruction and human suffering." Well, the writer then went on with further criticisms, as well as proposals for specific actions I should take. Since he's gone public, nationally, on TV and in the press, with much of what was in his message, I am replying to his specific points with an open letter on today's broadcast. Dear Senator: I find it hard to understand your unquestioning belief that our economic recovery program is not only responsible for unemployment-which was already serious 2 years agobut that it threatens "further collapse of the economy." My feelings of sorrow for those bearing the burden of unemployment are every bit as deep as yours. But you seem to write off or ignore the fact that unemployment was high in 1979 and went higher in 1980. Indeed, in the spring of '80, 1,400,000 workers were laid off or lost their jobs in a period of only a few months. In the last half of 1980, the money supply increased at an all-time high rate of 13 percent. Interest rates went right up with it to a 100-year high of 21 1/2 percent. And, of course, the inflation rate, the basic villain in all this, was in its second straight year of double digits12.4 percent. Now, we both know the high interest rates led to layoffs in the automobile industry. And as that industry slowed down, so did steel, rubber, and glass. Those same high interest rates brought down the housing industry as mortgages became too costly, leading to layoffs in lumber, appliances, furniture, and many other related industries. Now, all of this was taking place before our administration had even taken office. During our first several months in office, the Federal Reserve was below its targeted growth rate in money supply. This had the effect of maintaining the high interest rates well into the summer of '81, when the recession worsened substantially. Our economic recovery program didn't go into effect until October of '81, and then only a part of the program. So, we've only had 13 months of the economic recovery program, and not the entire program at that. And yet, inflation has come down to 4.8 percent so far this year. Interest rates are 11 1/2 and 12 percent, not 21 1/2. The rate of increase in Federal spending per year has been lowered from 17 to 6 percent. And our people have had the first real tax cut since the one John F. Kennedy gave them in the early 1960's. Is the economy continuing to decline as you said it was? Housing starts and building permits are up. There's been an above-normal increase in home sales for this time of year. Real purchasing power is up. The rate of personal savings is higher than it's been in 6 years. The stock market is some 215 points higher than it was just 10 weeks ago. Now, it's true, there have been a great many bankruptcies and business failures, but the number of new businesses starting up is near a record level. You suggest that I urge the Chairman of the Federal Reserve to loosen the money supply so as to reduce interest rates. But interest rates have come down almost 50 percent. In 1980, when the money supply was loosened, interest rates skyrocketed. You say put a moratorium on loans for corporate mergers, but that would be getting into credit control, which was tried and failed a few years ago. With regard to your proposal to send our special trade representative, Bill Brock, and others to negotiate trade regulations with Japan and our European trading partners-they've been doing that and have had considerable success and intend to continue. You urge that we embark on a giant public works program funded by government. Isn't that what we tried in all those seven other recessions since World War II? And all we got for that spending was a temporary quick fix, followed by more inflation and then another recession, usually deeper than the one before. Doing this would increase deficits and then repeat the high inflation and deep recession cycle we want to avoid. Make-work jobs would be offset by lost jobs in the private sector. You mentioned defense spending and two particular construction projects that we could do without. Well, defense spending is providing jobs for hundreds of thousands of American workers, besides providing for our national security. I appreciate your invitation to come to Michigan to see the unemployed firsthand. When I was in Michigan campaigning in 1980, unemployment in the city of Flint was then 20 percent, and in Detroit it was 18 percent. I saw similar tragic examples in Ohio and other industrial States. You speak of Americans "searching in vain for jobs that do not exist." Well, certainly that's true. But there also are jobs that do exist and are unfilled because of the lack of workers with the particular training or skill called for in those jobs. Count the pages of help wanted ads in our metropolitan papers on any given Sunday. Two weeks ago, the Washington Post ran 34 such pages. On the other side of America, the Los Angeles Times on that same day carried 52 pages. I'm sure that you'll be pleased to know we're starting a job training program in which the Federal Government will work with local officials and businesses and industrial leaders at the community level. The idea will be to train individuals for jobs now available in the communities where they live. Now, since two out of five of today's unemployed are between the ages of 16 and 24, the group with the highest unemployment rate, the program has a great potential. I think a careful study of the success of our existing policies in laying a groundwork for economic recovery will convince you they deserve more than the 13-month trial they've been given. End of letter. Well, I'll be back next Saturday. Till then, God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You may not have been aware, but last Tuesday, when we voted we were being observed by representatives of countries from five different continents. Officials from Africa, Asia, Europe, and South America joined us here to watch and learn as a part of the international Conference on Free Elections. Sometimes it's good to stop and think how unique we really are. We accept our right to vote as normal, but it is revolutionary. In the eyes of much of the world, it's a miracle. Last Tuesday, as Americans of every race, creed, and walk of life went to the polls and voted, we demonstrated once again that we are the freest people on Earth. Now that we've chosen the women and men who will represent us and shape our future, we must get on with the business of the Nation. There are serious problems America must face and genuine opportunities we must seize. You, the people, have sent a workable combination of Republicans and Democrats to Washington, and we must get on with the job. When the Congress recessed last month for the election campaign, it hadn't finished some of its most important work. So, I've asked them to come back. Our needs are too urgent to wait until next year. We must not fritter away the time while millions of our people are barely hanging on. The economic health of America is at stake. In this session, as in the next, cooperation will be the key to continue leading America to recovery. Campaign rhetoric and partisan politics must be set aside. Every elected official must bring to his or her work a bipartisan dedication to the good of the Nation. The Congress and the executive branch, Democrats and Republicans, must join together, not to do what's easy, but to do what is right. In these times of deep unemployment, the Congress must act to bring about growth and new opportunities. First, the Congress must do its part to control government spending. It has not yet lived up to its promise to save $3 in outlays for every $1 already passed in new revenues. Eleven appropriations bills must still be passed, and I will use the veto, if necessary, to keep them within the budget. Second, I urge the Congress to reconsider the constitutional amendment to balance the budget. That bill was among the most important to pass the Senate this year. It was blocked in the House by a minority of big spenders, despite the overwhelming support of the American people. Third, the Congress should act on regulatory reform to help make government and industry more economical and efficient. And fourth, we need the jobs, growth, and opportunities our enterprise zones proposal will stimulate in depressed areas.' That has been before the Congress for about a year. And fifth, we need the clean air bill, both to protect the environment and make it possible for industry to rebuild and create more jobs. These and other pressing needs remain on the congressional agenda. We've had enough talk. Campaign cliches must give way to action. If we're to continue the momentum for recovery, if we're to surmount our problems as I know we can, we must act together, and we must act now. Just yesterday, the Labor Department announced that the unemployment rate reached 10.4 percent. Now, that's only a cold government statistic, but behind it are real people who are hurting. I'm not going to sugar-coat this news, because I cannot hide my own personal ache. I remember what it's like to be 21 and to feel your future has been mortgaged by the generation before you. That's a terrible tragedy we must never allow to happen again. In our efforts to revive our economy, jobs must be our most urgent priority, and lasting solutions must be our constant and consistent principle. How deeply I wish that we could relieve our current situation with some immediate magic method. But there is a new spirit buildingof optimism and hope for America's future. The severe problems which have been neglected for years and which caused unemployment to trend steadily higherproblems of runaway spending, taxing, double-digit inflation, and sky-high interest ratesare now being attacked at their roots. Inflation is down to 4.8 percent. Interest rates have dropped by nearly 50 percent, and taxes on the people are being cut. A woman from California wrote me. "As a homemaker," she said, "I'm the one who shops and budgets for our family. I'm the first one to notice that my dollars are buying more. Little by little, I find I can breathe easier. For the first time in 5 years, I feel I can do some much needed repairs in our home." Well, her letter reflects the growing confidence in our country. As more and more Americans see daylight ahead, our economy will grow stronger. We're seeing it begin to happen. Last month, new home sales rose by 24 percent, and new orders for capital goods also increased. Personal savings reached a 6-year high, which helped bring down interest rates and fuel the historic advance in our stock and bond markets. This will provide American industry more capital to invest in our future, and that means better productivity and more jobs. The groundwork is being laid for the rejuvenation of our economy and the return of millions of Americans to our country's work force. That wonderful Old Testament book of Ecclesiastes teaches us that "to everything there is a season." Well, my fellow citizens, I've never believed more strongly that America is beginning a season of hope, a genuine hope that springs from the vitality of the American spirit. Now we must seize our opportunity and live up to the principles of courage, hard work, and economic responsibility that made our country great in the first place. I know our people will not fail America. They never have. Our task is to be sure our leaders do not fail the American people. Thank you for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: During the campaign 2 years ago, I spoke of the need for the United States to restore the balance in our relationship with the Soviet Union. For too many years we had stood still while the Soviets increased their military strength and expanded their influence from Afghanistan to Ethiopia and beyond. I expressed a belief, which you seemed to share, that it was time for the United States to chart a new course. Since then, we've embarked upon a buildup of our defense forces in order to strengthen our security and, in turn, to strengthen the prospects for peace. We still have a long way to go. But the fact that we've started on a new course has enabled us to propose the most comprehensive set of proposals for arms reduction and control in more than a quarter of a century. It's always been my belief that if the Soviets knew we were serious about maintaining our security, they might be more willing to negotiate seriously at the bargaining table. In the near future, I will be speaking to you in more detail about this matter of arms control and, more importantly, arms reductions. But right now I have something in the nature of news I'd like to bring you. The balance between the United States and the Soviet Union cannot be measured in weapons and bombers alone. To a large degree, the strength of each nation is also based on economic strength. Unfortunately, the West's economic relations with the U.S.S.R. have not always served the national security goals of the alliance. The Soviet Union faces serious economic problems. But weand I mean all of the nations of the free worldhave helped the Soviets avoid some hard economic choices by providing preferential terms of trade, by allowing them to acquire militarily relevant technology, and by providing them a market for their energy resources, even though this creates an excessive dependence on them. By giving such preferential treatment, we've added to our own problemscreating a situation where we have to spend more money on our defense to keep up with Soviet capabilities which we helped create. Since taking office, I have emphasized to our allies the importance of our economic as well as our political relationship with the Soviet Union. In July of 1981 at the economic summit meeting in Ottawa, Canada, I expressed to the heads of state of the other major Western countries and Japan my belief that we could not continue conducting business as we had. I suggested that we forge a new set of rules for economic relations with the Soviet Union which would put our security concerns foremost. I wasn't successful at that time in getting agreement on a common policy. Then in December of 1981 the Polish Government, at Soviet instigation, imposed martial law on the Polish people and outlawed the Solidarity union. This action showed graphically that our hopes for moderation in Soviet behavior were not likely to be fulfilled. In response to that action, I imposed an embargo on selected oil and gas equipment to demonstrate our strong opposition to such actions and to penalize this sector of the Soviet economy which relies heavily on high technology, much of it from the United States. In June of this year I extended our embargo to include not only U.S. companies and their products but subsidiaries of U.S. companies abroad and on foreign licensees of U.S. companies. Well, it's no secret that our allies didn't agree with this action. We stepped up our consultations with them in an effort to forge an enduring, realistic, and security-minded economic policy toward the Soviet Union. These consultations have gone on over a period of months. Well, I'm pleased today to announce that the industrialized democracies have this morning reached substantial agreement on a plan of action. The understanding we've reached demonstrates that the Western alliance is fundamentally united and intends to give consideration to strategic issues when making decisions on trade with the U.S.S.R. As a result, we have agreed not to engage in trade arrangements which contribute to the military or strategic advantage of the U.S.S.R. or serve to preferentially aid the heavily militarized Soviet economy. In putting these principles into practice, we will give priority attention to trade in high technology products, including those used in oil and gas production. We will also undertake an urgent study of Western energy alternatives, as well as the question of dependence on energy imports from the Soviet Union. In addition, we've agreed on the following immediate actions. First, each partner has affirmed that no new contracts for the purchase of Soviet natural gas will be signed or approved during the course of our study of alternative Western sources of energy. Second, we and our partners will strengthen existing controls on the transfer of strategic items to the Soviet Union. Third, we will establish without delay procedures for monitoring financial relations with the Soviet Union and will work to harmonize our export credit policies. The understanding we and our partners have reached and the actions we are taking reflect our mutual determination to overcome differences and strengthen our cohesion. I believe this new agreement is a victory for all the allies. It puts in place a much needed policy in the economic area to complement our. policies in the security area. As I mentioned a moment ago, the United States imposed sanctions against the Soviet Union in order to demonstrate that their policies of oppression would entail substantial costs. Well, now that we've achieved an agreement with our allies which provides for stronger and more effective measures, there is no further need for these sanctions, and I am lifting them today. The process of restoring a proper balance in relations with the Soviet Union is not ended. It will take time to make up for the losses incurred in past years. But acting together, we and our allies are making major progress. And I'm happy to say the prospects for peace are brighter. I have just returned to the White House from the Soviet Embassy, where I signed the book of condolence for President Brezhnev. New leaders are coming to power in the Soviet Union. If they act in a responsible fashion, they will meet a ready and positive response in the West. Till next Saturday at this same time, goodby, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I've talked to you on a number of occasions about the economic problems and opportunities our nation faces. Well, as you've probably heard on news reports, America's problems are not unique. Other nations face very severe economic difficulties. In fact, both developed and developing countries alike have been in the grip of the longest worldwide recession in postwar history. And that's bad news for all of us. When other countries don't grow, they buy less from us, and we see fewer jobs created at home. When we don't grow, we buy less from them, which weakens their economies and, of course, their ability to buy from us. It's a vicious cycle. You can understand the danger of worldwide recession when you realize how much is at stake. Exports account for over 5 million jobs in the United States. Two out of every five acres planted by American farmers produce crops for exports. But because of their recessions, other countries are buying fewer American farm products than last year. Our farmers are hurtingand they're just one group. So, we are trying to turn this situation around. We're reminding the world that, yes, we all have serious problems. But our economic systembased on individual freedom, private initiative, and free tradehas produced more human progress than any other in history. It is in all of our interests to preserve it, protect it, and strengthen it. We are reminding our trading partners that preserving individual freedom and restoring prosperity also requires free and fair trade in the marketplace. The United States took the lead after World War II in creating an international trading and financial system that limited governments' ability to disrupt free trade across borders. We did this because history had taught us an important lesson: Free trade serves the cause of economic progress, and it serves the cause of world peace. When governments get too involved in trade, economic costs increase and political disputes multiply. Peace is threatened. In the 1930's, the world experienced an ugly specterprotectionism and trade wars and, eventually, real wars and unprecedented suffering and loss of life. There are some who seem to believe that we should run up the American flag in defense of our markets. They would embrace protectionism again and insulate our markets from world competition. Well, the last time the United States tried that, there was enormous economic distress in the world. World trade fell by 60 percent, and young Americans soon followed the American flag into World War II. I'm old enough and, hopefully, wise enough not to forget the lessons of those unhappy years. The world must never live through such a nightmare again. We're in the same boat with our trading partners. If one partner shoots a hole in the boat, does it make sense for the other one to shoot another hole in the boat? Some say, yes, and call that getting tough. Well, I call it stupid. We shouldn't be shooting holes; we should be working together to plug them up. We must strengthen the boat of free markets and fair trade so it can lead the world to economic recovery and greater political stability. And here's how we're working to do that: We insist on sound domestic policies at home that bring down inflation, and we look to others for no less in their own economies. The International Monetary Fund, the institution that deals with world financial issues, seeks to encourage its member countries to follow sound domestic policies and avoid government restrictions on international trade and investment to foster economic development and raise their people's standard of living. We remind other countries that as the U.S. helps to lead the world out of this recession, they will benefit as we buy more goods from them. This will enable them to grow and buy more goods from us. And that will mean more jobs all around. That is the way of free markets and free trade. We must resist protectionism because it can only lead to fewer jobs for them and fewer jobs for us. In just 4 days, the Trade Ministers of virtually all the free world countries will meet in Geneva, Switzerland. They will seek ways to surmount challenges to the integrity of our international economic system. We were instrumental in convening this international meeting because we believe strongly that our trading system is at a crossroads. Either free world countries go forward and sustain the drive toward more open markets, or they risk sliding back toward the mistakes of the 1930's and succumbing to the evils of more and more government intervention. And this is really no choice at all. The United States will reject protectionist and defeatist proposals. Instead, we will set new goals and lay out a program for limiting government intervention in world markets. We will lead with a clear sense of our own commercial interests and a quiet determination to defend these interests. We will take actions at home and abroad which enhance the ability of United States industries to compete in international trade. Let no one misunderstand us. We're generous and farsighted in our goals, and we intend to use our full power to achieve these goals. We seek to plug the holes in the boat of free markets and free trade and get it moving again in the direction of prosperity. And no one should mistake our determination to use our full power and influence to prevent others from destroying the boat and sinking us all. That's how the United States is working in the world on behalf of freedom, economic prosperity, and peace. I'll be back again next week. Thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This special holiday weekend is a time when we all give thanks for the many things our land is blessed with. It's also a fitting time for us to think about ways in which we can preserve those blessings for future generations. One of our great material blessings is the outstanding network of roads and highways that spreads across this vast continent. Freedom of travel and the romance of the road are vital parts of our heritage, and they helped to make America great. Four million miles of streets and roads make it possible for the average citizen to drive to virtually every corner of our countryto enjoy America in all its beauty and variety. They also form a vital commercial artery unequaled anywhere else in the world. Our interstate system has reduced by nearly a day and a half the time it takes to drive coast to coast. And more efficient roads mean lower transportation costs for the many products and goods that make our abundant way of life possible. But let's face it: Lately, driving isn't as much fun as it used to be. Time and wear have taken their toll on America's roads and highways. In some places the bad condition of the pavement does more to control speed than the speed limits. We simply cannot allow this magnificent system to deteriorate beyond repair. The time has come to preserve what past Americans spent so much time and effort to create, and that means a nationwide conservation effort in the best sense of the word. America can't afford throwaway roads or disposable transit systems. The bridges and highways we fail to repair today will have to be rebuilt tomorrow at many times the cost. So I'm asking the Congress when it reconvenes next week to approve a new highway program that will enable us to complete construction of the interstate system and at the same time get on with the job of renovating existing highways. The program will not increase the Federal deficit or add to the taxes that you and I pay on April 15th. It'll be paid for by those of us who use the system, and it will cost the average car owner only about $30 a year. That's less than the cost of a couple of shock absorbers. Most important of all, it'll cost far less to act now than it would to delay until further damage is done. And I should point out, delay is also dangerous as well as costly. And let me give you a few examples. There's already a section of interstate highway in Illinois that's so far gone the truckers call it the only all-gravel interstate in the country. There are bridges that school bus drivers won't drive across until the children get out of the bus and cross on foot. Little league baseball actually had to be suspended on a field underneath the Queensborough Bridge in New York because of the condition of the bridge. And in one small community in Pennsylvania, a family living beneath a bridge that's part of I-70 has told their children not to play outdoors because rubble from the bridge keeps falling into the yard. Overall, we have 4,000 miles of interstate highway that need resurfacing and 23,000 bridges that need replacement or repair. Our cities also have vital public transit capital needs for new buses, new or rebuilt rail cars, and track improvements that will total $50 billion over the next 10 years. Common sense tells us that it'll cost a lot less to keep the system we have in good repair than to let it crumble and then have to start all over again. Good tax policy decrees that wherever possible a fee for a service should be assessed against those who directly benefit from that service. Our highways were built largely with such a user feethe gasoline tax. I think it makes sense to follow that principle in restoring them to the condition we all want them to be in. So, what we're proposing is to add the equivalent of 5 cents per gallon to the existing Federal highway user fee, the gas tax. That hasn't been increased for the last 23 years. The cost to the average motorist will be small, but the benefit to our transportation system will be immense. The program will also stimulate 170,000 jobs, not in make-work projects but in real, worthwhile work in the hard-hit construction industries, and an additional 150,000 jobs in related industries. It will improve safety on our highways and will make truck transportation more efficient and productive for years to come. Perhaps most important, we will be preserving for future generations of Americans a highway system that has long been the envy of the world and that has truly made the average American driver king of the road. Thanks for listening, and until next time, God bless you.\par
I'm speaking to you today from San Jose, Costa Rica. Later this evening, I'll return to Washington, having visited with six neighboring heads of state. Our delegation has seen firsthand the vitality and potential of our New World neighbors. We've also heard and discussed their needs and aspirations and how they affect our own vital national interests. United States interests require that we support our fellow Americans with a hemispheric policy which preserves and promotes democratic institutions, advances and encourages free market economies, and provides the security essential for these systems to develop and flourish. In our discussions during these last 4 days, I pledged our continued commitment to work as friends and neighbors with the other nations of this Western Hemisphere. We'll stand firmly with them to achieve the promise of economic progress and political stability that is the legacy of peace in the Americas. Through cooperation, together we can protect ourselves from counterfeit revolutionaries who seek to destroy growth and impose totalitarianism on people who love freedom. Let us remember something very important: If our neighbors, particularly our nearest neighbors in the Caribbean Basin, are in trouble, their troubles inevitably become ours, unless we work together to solve them. Right now their difficulties are not entirely of their own making. World prices for their traditional productssugar, bananas, bauxite, and coffeehave been declining sharply for several years. At the same time, the prices for their essential imports, particularly petroleum, have remained high. This worldwide recession, the longest and most severe in postwar history, has hit their economies with all the fury of the tropical storms they're exposed to each year. We cannot afford to ignore these difficulties. Our ties with the countries of the Caribbean Basin are very close. One-half of our trade passes through this area. Prolonged social and economic disruption would cause an exodus of desperate people seeking refuge where so many others have already found itin the United States. The interests of Caribbean Basin countries are our interests; their security is our security. The difficulties in the Caribbean Basin may seem overwhelming, but just as tropical storms give way to sunshine and calmer seas, economic despair will give way to optimism if people have the prospect to build a better life in freedom. Our support for democratic institutions is already helping. U.S. assistance to help these countries defend themselves from outside-supported subversion is likewise showing signs of progress. Our Caribbean Basin Initiative, designed to provide economic opportunity by stimulating investment and trade, offers the hope of economic progress, which anchors democracy and freedom. In September the United States Congress approved funds for emergency balance-of-payments assistance as the first step in this initiative. I also attach great importance to the 1983 fiscal year package of foreign assistance. But our goal is not a temporary boost from foreign aid. Our goal is to help our neighbors strengthen democratic institutions and free economies that stand on their own. We need long-term incentives to expand production and create new jobs. The trade and investment portions of our Caribbean Basin Initiative legislation are designed to accomplish this. I've proposed that we offer our neighbors the opportunity to trade with us freely by eliminating trade barriers for most products for 12 years, and by providing tax incentives for U.S. investment in their economies. With our markets beckoning, the inducement to expand existing enterprises and invest in new ventures will increase. This will create growth and jobs, both for Caribbean countries and for the United States. Trade is the path to new progress for everyone. All developing countries, including ours, succeeded by expanded free enterprise at home and by increasing their trade with other countries. By helping them, we help ourselves. As their economies grow, we'll have new markets for our exports. The faster their standards of living rise, the more jobs will be created in the United States. The impact on our own domestic industries of more goods coming from the Caribbean will be minimal, since the quantity of imports from these small countries will not be great. Moreover, our industries and our jobs will have safeguards to protect them from disruption. Since taking office, I've held numerous discussions with Caribbean Basin leaders. They have assured me that their Caribbean Basin Initiative will provide more fuel for their private economies to be engines for lasting growth. They, too, have faith that private enterprise can flourish with the magic of the marketplace. This initiative, I'm pleased to say, is only part of a wider undertaking in the Caribbean Basin. Canada, Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela have joined us with impressive initiatives of their own. I'm asking the Congress only that we in the United States do our part by doing what we can do best-create economic opportunity. The leaders of the Congress have promised to give the Caribbean Basin Initiative urgent consideration during the current session. The initiative has already received substantial bipartisan support. I urge all Members of the Congress to look carefully at the benefits which the Caribbean Basin Initiative will bring to our neighbors, and to us. Final passage this year is top priority. I'll be leaving tonight to return to Washington. I can't close without saying how impressed I've' been with the leaders I've met here in the nations of South and Central America and the people. I believe we've created bonds which will serve to bring the nations and peoples of the Americas into a closer accord. These two great continents joined by the countries of Central America can be the hope of the world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
A few weeks ago, I talked with you about our quest for peacefor a secure world in which our children and our children's children can grow up without fear, enjoying the blessings of peace and freedom. As President, my first duty is to do everything in my power to achieve these goals. Two of the keys to preserving the peace are deterrence and arms reduction. One of these keys has worked perfectly for 37 years. Since the end of World War II, we've prevented the outbreak of a new global war by a national policy of deterrence. To do that meant maintaining our defense forces so that any enemy knew in advance that an attack on us or our allies would bring disaster, not victory, to the attacker. Now, when a potential enemy knows that by starting a war he'll lose more that he hopes to gain, he just won't start a war in the first place. That's what deterrence is all about. A key feature of this policy has been to maintain strong strategic forces. Our triad, as it's calledour three-legged plan of landbased missiles, sea-based missiles, and manned bombersmakes clear to any aggressor that if he attacks us, we will still have the strength to strike back, the ability to retaliate. That's because no potential attacker has the strength to knock out all three legs of our defense triad at the same time. If we only had two parts to this force, then preserving the peace would be more difficult. Potential attackers might even come to believe they could launch and win a nuclear war. We must never let this happen. That's why last year I ordered all three legs of our strategic forces to be modernized. There's no question about the need for modernizing them. Today all three are made up mainly of weapons we developed more than 10 years agomore than 20 years ago in the case of our bombers. Sooner or later older systems become ineffective and vulnerable. Our most pressing problem today is that the Soviet Union, because of its massive buildup of nuclear weapons, could destroy virtually all of our land-based missiles in a single nuclear attack. If we do nothing to correct that situation, we will have weakened the chances for peace. This is why we need the new MX Peacekeeper missileto help restore our strategic deterrent and literally to keep the peace. The Peacekeeper is a modern missile, and it is survivable. I agree with my scientific and military advisers that the closely spaced basing plan we proposed will work. Congress had ordered us to submit a basing proposal for the MX by December 1st, which we did. However, we're prepared to review this matter with the Congress in the new year. The basing mode is not an issue. There's plenty of time to decide on that. What we need now is a clear, positive vote on the missile itself, to go forward on production of the missile. Why? Because we're negotiating with the Soviet Union at Geneva to reduce substantially nuclear arsenals on both sidesthe other key to protecting the peace in the nuclear age. These are tough negotiations, but our team is hanging in there. However, if we just cancel the Peacekeeper, the MXif we say we won't deploy itwe remove a major incentive for the Soviets to stay at the table and agree to reductions. Look at it from their perspective. If we're willing to cancel a weapon system without getting something in return, why should they offer to eliminate or reduce weapons that give them an advantage over us? In 1977 my predecessor sent his Secretary of State to Moscow with a proposal that the Soviets reduce the number of their heavy SS-18 missiles. At the time, we had nothing comparable to the SS-18 and no new missiles to deploy. The result was what you'd expect. The Soviets refused to even consider the proposal. I can't believe the American people want to make that mistake a second time. The stakes are just too high. Without the Peacekeeper, we weaken our ability to deter war, and we may lose a valuable opportunity to achieve a treaty to reduce nuclear weapons on both sides. With it, we make progress onboth paths to peace. On both counts, there's no doubt that we need it. In the weeks ahead, we'll continue to bring the facts to you, the American people, and your representatives on this vital issue. We've already done it in hearings before the Senate. I only wish the House had given us the opportunity to do the same before it voted last Tuesday to cut funds for the Peacekeeper missile. It's hard to make a good decision before you've heard the facts. And in my opinion, the House of Representatives voted without really considering the facts. As we present our case for the Peacekeeper missile to you, I hope you'll keep in mind that by continuing to maintain our ability to deter attack, we make it less likely that the horror of nuclear war will ever occur. And by keeping our defenses credible, we offer the Soviet Union a realistic incentive to reduce tensions and to agree to significant and verifiable arms reductions. These are vital objectives. But I can't achieve them without the support of the American people and the United States Congress. To protect the peace, we must provide the funds necessary to offset the enormous Soviet military buildup and restore a military balance, particularly in nuclear weapons. And to achieve the arms reductions we want, we must give the Soviets the incentive to negotiate. We must go to the bargaining table in a position of strength, not weakness. My fellow Americans, with your continued support for a strong defense and for the Peacekeeper missilebut only with your supportwe can achieve both of these crucial goals. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: For many of us, this holiday season is the most special time of the yeara time when faith, joy, and love lift our spirits and bring new meaning to our lives. It's a time when we can look into the heart of America and know that her heart is good. And this year, especially this year, it's a time when we can look to our future with new hope1983 will be a better year. Together, we've launched a great national effort to correct the dangerous, neglected problems that were leading our country toward disaster. The job hasn't been easy; it's been a long, tough haul. And let's not kid ourselves, we have much more to do before we can truly say America is well again. For too many of us, economic recovery is still a faceless stranger in some cold, distant future, not a warm friend who's come to grace our family hearth. But despite our frustrations, let's not lose sight of the essential: America is on the mend. To move forward again we had to get rid of what was holding us backrunaway spending, double-digit inflation, record interest rates, a tax burden soaring out of sight, and an alarming erosion of our national defense, which jeopardized our security and undermined our leadership abroad. Progress is always slower than we'd like, but there's no doubt we're making headway on each of these deep-rooted problems. Looking to the future, I see an America that will help to lead the world out of its longest, deepest recession in postwar history; 1983 will witness a higher level of economic activity and lower unemployment. This view is held not only by my economic advisers but by the vast majority of private forecasters across the country, and the forecasts are being borne out by the facts and figures. Momentum for recovery is not weakening but building. Sharp declines in inflation, interest rates, and the first reductions in personal income tax rates have given consumers more money to spend, more incentives to save, and more confidence to do both. Workers' real hourly earnings have registered their first year-to-year improvement since 1978. One of the most encouraging signs we're seeing is the strong recovery in a bedrock American industryhousing. More homes built will mean new demand for big-ticket items like appliances, whose sales have been lagging. Auto and retail sales are also picking up, and business startups are near a record. All this will stimulate demand for labor, and that means jobs. I think it's encouraging that the help wanted advertising index in Octoberthe most recent month available rose 4.1 percent after falling for the previous 10 months. Equally encouraging, initial claims for unemployment insurance have begun to trend lower. Now, let me say a word about another long-ignored problem we've begun to correct-the decline of our nation's defenses. The day I took office, almost 2 years ago, our Armed Forces were in a dismal state of readiness. Shortages of skilled manpower, faulty equipment, lack of spare parts, insufficient fuel and ammunition for proper trainingall had left the United States exposed and vulnerable. Let us always remember we have no higher responsibility than safeguarding the security and freedom of our country. One of my first priorities was to restore the readiness of our Armed Forces. We've begun to pay our soldiers a decent wage for the risks they take, and that incentive is bearing fruit. Reenlistment is up significantly, and the educational caliber of enlistees is improving, too. But we're not just giving our men and women in uniform the better pay they deserve, we're also providing them the training and equipment they weren't getting before. We have increased pilot flying time, extended basic training, and restocked spare parts inventories. By providing adequate compensation for our soldiers, by giving them the tools they need to do their jobs, we're restoring dignity, honor, and pride to the uniform of the United States of America. And, by strengthening the credibility of our Armed Forces, we increase the probability of reaching a satisfactory arms control agreement with the Soviet Union. A stronger defense is an investment in peace. It helps ensure that our sons and daughters will not have to pay the price that so many before them had to. Two years ago, there was growing doubt about America's determination to protect its vital interests and fulfill its obligations as a trustee of freedom, democracy, and peace. Well, I don't think anyone harbors such illusions anymore. With our friends in the Americas, Europe, Africa, and Asia, we're working in a spirit of partnership to stimulate economic progress and to build a more peaceful world. The United States will redouble its efforts to restore sovereignty to Lebanon and to renew negotiations for an end to turmoil and bloodshed in the Middle East. And we'll strive to strengthen world peace through intensive negotiations with the Soviet Union. I want the Russian people to know the United States is committed to negotiate significant reductions in existing levels of weapons and to foster a more stable relationship between our two nations. In this season when people all over the world celebrate the birth of Jesus, the one we call the Prince of Peace, let us rededicate ourselves to this sacred mission. Our country may face enormous challenges, but the great advantage of our democracy is that we do not act from fear or simply respond to threats. We Americans have never been pessimists. We conquer fear with faith, and we overwhelm threats and hardship with courage, work, opportunity, and freedom. We're a nation built and sustained by hope. And for all of us in America, this is a time for new hope. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
Merry Christmas from the White House. Nancy and I wish we could personally thank the thousands of you who've sent us holiday cards, greetings, and messages. Each one is moving and tells a story of its owna story of love, hope, prayer, and patriotism. And each one has helped to brighten our Christmas. Some of the most moving have come from fellow citizens who, unlike most of us, are not spending Christmas day at the family hearth, surrounded by friends and loved ones. I'm thinking of the 12 U.S. marines who sent us a card from Beirut, Lebanon, where they'll spend their Christmas helping to rebuild the shattered hopes for peace in a suffering land. And I'm thinking of the petty officer serving aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise who asked that we remember him and his shipmates this holiday season. "Christmas in the Indian Ocean is no fun," he writes, "but it's for a very good cause." Well, that's right, sailor. You're serving a very good cause, indeed. On this, the birthday of the Prince of Peace, you and your comrades serve to protect the peace He taught us. You may be thousands of miles away, but to us here at home, you've never been closer. One of my favorite pieces of Christmas mail came early this year, a sort of modern American Christmas story that took place not in our country's heartland, but on the troubled waters of the South China Sea last October. To me, it sums up so much of what is best about the Christmas spirit, the American character, and what this beloved land of ours stands fornot only to ourselves but to millions of less fortunate people around the globe. I want to thank Mr. Gary Kemp of Neenab, Wisconsin, for bringing it to my attention. It's a letter from Ordnance Man, First Class, John Mooney, written to his parents from aboard the aircraft carrier Midway on October 15th. But it's a true Christmas story in the best sense. "Dear Mom and Dad," he wrote, "today we spotted a boat in the water, and we rendered assistance. We picked up 65 Vietnamese refugees. It was about a two-hour job getting everyone aboard, and then they had to get screened by intelligence and checked out by medical and fed and clothed and all that. "But now they're resting on the hangar deck, and the kidsmost of them seem to be kids . . . are sitting in front of probably the first television set they've ever seen, watching 'Star Wars'. Their boat was sinking as we came alongside. They'd been at sea five days, and had run out of water. All in all, a couple of more days and the kids would have been in pretty bad shape. "I guess once in awhile," he writes, "we need a jolt like that for us to realize why we do what we do and how important, really, it can be. I mean, it took a lot of guts for those parents to make a choice like that to go to sea in a leaky boat in hope of finding someone to take them from the sea. So much risk! But apparently they felt it was worth it rather than live in a Communist country. "For all of our problems, with the price of gas, and not being able to afford a new car or other creature comforts this year... I really don't see a lot of leaky boats heading out of San Diego looking for the Russian ships out there .... "After the refugees were brought aboard, I took some pictures, but as usual I didn't have my camera with me for the REAL picturethe one blazed in my mind .... "As they approached the ship, they were all waving and trying as best they could to say, 'Hello America sailor! Hello Freedom man!' It's hard to see a boat full of people like that and not get a lump somewhere between chin and bellybutton. And it really makes one proud and glad to be an American. People were waving and shouting and choking down lumps and trying not to let other brave men see their wet eyes. A lieutenant next to me said, 'Yeah, I guess it's payday in more ways than one.' (We got paid today.) And I guess no one could say it better than that. "It reminds us all of what America has always beena place a man or woman can come to for freedom. I know we're crowded and we have unemployment and we have a real burden with refugees, but I honestly hope and pray we can always find room. We have a unique society, made up of cast-offs of all the world's wars and oppressions, and yet we're strong and free. We have one thing in commonno matter where our forefathers came from, we believe in that freedom. "I hope we always have room for one more person, maybe an Afghan or a Pole or someone else looking for a place... where he doesn't have to worry about his family's starving or a knock on the door in the night . . ." and where "all men who truly seek freedom and honor and respect and dignity for themselves and their posterity can find a place where they can . . . finally see their dreams come true and their kids educated and become the next generations of doctors and lawyers and builders and soldiers and sailors. Love, John." Well, I think that letter just about says it all. In spite of everything, we Americans are still uniquely blessed, not only with the rich bounty of our land but by a bounty of the spirita kind of year-round Christmas spirit that still makes our country a beacon of hope in a troubled world and that makes this Christmas and every Christmas even more special for all of us who number among our gifts the birthright of being an American. Until next week, thanks for listening. Merry Christmas, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I've always thought New Year's Day was an especially American tradition, full of the optimism and hope we're famous for in our daily livesan energy and confidence we call the American spirit. Perhaps because we know we control our own destiny, we believe deep down inside that working together we can make each new year better than the old. Although last night was one of parties, today is one of resolutions. Reviewing the old year, we try to decide what we can do better in the new. Most of us are with our families, near the warmth of the hearth, watching the parades with our children and football with our friends. Gathered together, we find strength and renewal. But this special holiday time is tragically marred for too many of us. You may have spotted the reason on the road last night if you had to drive home: the drunk driver. Each year, approximately 25,000 lives are lost in alcohol-related automobile accidents. An additional 650,000 are seriously injured. The personal pain and heartache caused by these needless tragedies is immeasurable, and billions of dollars are lost in medical costs, wages, and through hours of missed work. This weekend, while millions of Americans are traveling on our highways and streets and while hundreds of millions more are celebrating with their loved ones, let's take a few minutes to think of ways to protect ourselves and our families from the menace of the drunk and drug-influenced driver. The first step is to realize that a drunkdriver accident is no accident. The motorist who drinks too much and then drives, who uses drugs and then gets behind the wheel of a ear, is a disaster waiting to happen. Overall, alcohol is now involved in up to 55 percent of all fatal highway crashes and is a contributing factor in more than 2 million motor vehicle accidents each year. The drunk driver has turned his car into a weapona weapon that threatens the lives and safety of the innocent. Fortunately, there's a brighter side. Today we have one of our best opportunities in years to tackle this tragic problem. Public awareness has never been higher. Citizens groups, local officials, legislators, judges, police officerspeople from all over the country are saying, "Enough is enough. Let's get these killers off our roads and get them off now." Last April, I appointed a Presidential Commission on Drunk Driving to explore the problem more fully and to work with State and local governments to develop effective programs. Their interim report has already come in and has some useful findings. For example, we've found that people who've had too much to drink are less likely to drive when they know they have a good chance of being caught. The potential drunk driver who understands that prosecution is certain and the penalty swift will be less likely to insist on driving home. For this deterrent to work, however, State and local law enforcement officials must make it clear that they mean business. Programs are already springing up in some States with good results. In areas where police have made drunk drivers a prime target, traffic deaths have begun to decline. For example, in Maine, alcohol-related crashes have dropped 41 percent since that State's drunk driving program was strengthened. The highway death rate there is the lowest since they started keeping records. Maryland has also intensified its program, and highway deaths there are at a 19-year low. Since 1980, 11 States have raised the legal drinking age and many other communities, counties, and States have strengthened their laws, some requiring mandatory jail sentences for first offenders. In New York, for example, the fines and fees levied on those arrested are directed to local alcohol programs. In many areas, citizen groups are assisting State and local task forces, providing legislative support, and participating in court monitoring and victim assistance. Of course, until we change our attitudes and our laws, our best protection is still to buckle our safety belts. There's much to be done if we're to rid ourselves of this scourge on our roads, and there's a continuing need for private initiative. We must each make it our personal responsibility. If we band together, we can change the laws that will help make the difference. If we insist long enough and loudly enough, we can save lives. So, I thought it appropriate to start the ball rolling on this, the first day of the new year. Today, we're taking a break from the concerns and the bustle of the work-a-day world. But we're also making a new beginning. As we gather around our dining room tables for the midday meal, let us thank God for life and the blessings He's put before us. High among them are our families, our freedom, and the opportunities of a new year. Let us renew our faith that as free men and women we still have the power to better our lives, and let us resolve to face the challenges of the new year holding that conviction firmly in our hearts. That, after all, is our greatest strength and our greatest gift as Americans. So, till next week, thanks for listening, happy new year, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to share with you some thoughts on one of the most important aspects of America's role in the worldour relations with the Soviet Union. Keeping the peace for both countriesfor that matter, for all mankind, depends on our wise and steady management of this relationship. As you know, a new leader has come to power in Moscow. There's been much speculation about whether this change could mean a chance to reduce tensions and solve some of the problems between us. No one hopes more than I do that the future will bring improvement in our relations with the Soviets and an era of genuine stability. What could be more important than reducing the danger of confrontation, increasing the prospects for enduring peace, lowering nuclear arsenals, relieving human suffering in Afghanistan, Kampuchea, and elsewhere? With your support, this administration has embarked on an effort to restore our nation's strength, credibility, and clarity of purpose in the world. Our aim has been to ensure that America has the will and the means to deter conflict and to defend the interests of freedom. We've done this for one reason and one reason onlybecause a strong, respected America is the surest way to preserve the peace and prevent conflict. In this effort, we must learn from history. We all experienced the soaring hopes and then plunging disappointment of the 1970's, when the Soviet response to our unilateral restraint was to accelerate their military buildup, to foment violence in the developing world, to invade neighboring Afghanistan, and to support the repression of Poland. The lesson is inescapable. If there are to be better mutual relations, they must result from moderation in Soviet conduct, not just our own good intentions. In recent days, some encouraging words have come out of Moscow. Clearly the Soviets want to appear more responsive and reasonable. But moderate words are convincing only when they're matched by moderate behavior. Now we must see whether they're genuinely interested in reducing existing tensions. We and our democratic partners eagerly await any serious actions and proposals the Soviets may offer and stand ready to discuss with them serious proposals which can genuinely advance the cause of peace. We do not insist that the Soviet Union abandon its standing as a superpower or its legitimate national interests. In fact, we hope that the new leadership in Moscow will come to realize that Soviet interests would be improved by ending the bloodshed in Afghanistan, by showing restraint in the Middle East, by permitting reform and thus promoting stability in Poland, by ending their unequaled military buildup, as we have proposed, by reducing the most dangerous nuclear arms to much lower and equal levels. We stand ready to work towards solutions to all outstanding problems. Now, this doesn't mean that we should neglect our own defenses. That would undercut our ability to maintain peace and jeopardize whatever chance we may have for changing Soviet conduct. But it does mean that we're always ready to sit down with the Soviets to discuss practical steps that could resolve problems and lead to a more durable and genuine improvement in East-West relations. Next month, Soviet and American negotiators will resume talks in Geneva on strategic and intermediate-range nuclear forces. We've proposed drastic cuts in those threatening intermediate-range forces. The Soviets have responded in both negotiations with proposals of their own. So, a serious foundation for progress has been laid. America will negotiate energetically and in good faith to achieve early agreements providing for reduced and equal levels of forces. The Soviet leadership must understand that the way to reduce the nuclear threat is by negotiating in the same sincere spirit and not by trying to sow division between the American people and our NATO partners. That kind of negative tactic is certain to fail and can only delay real progress. A cornerstone of our approach to relations with the Soviet Union is close consultation with our allies on common political and security issues. In this spirit, I've asked Vice President Bush to travel to Europe. Beginning at the end of this month, he will visit the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, France, and Great Britain, and at the Vatican he will meet with Pope John Paul II. In Switzerland the Vice President will meet with the negotiating teams for the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks, which we call START, and the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces arms control talks we call INF and will attend a meeting of the Committee on Disarmament in Geneva. The Vice President's visit to these close friends and allies and his discussions at the Vatican and in Geneva underscore our fundamental commitment to peace and security in Europe and to genuine arms reductions. So, the new year begins with reason for all of us to hope that if we continue to act firmly and wisely, 1983 can be a time of peaceful progress for America, for our allies, for the people of the U.S.S.R., and for the entire world. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: A few' hours from now in the East Room of the White House, I'll be hosting a reception honoring the memory of a man who played a truly historic role in expanding the freedom we enjoy in America. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was born into a world where bigotry and racism still held sway. Before he died, he had touched the conscience of a nation and had contributed immeasurably to the human rights of black Americans. He was a man of character and a man of courage. Early in his life, Martin Luther King learned the meaning of discrimination. He and his fathera distinguished minister in a large Baptist churchwent to a shoe store and were told that they would have to go to the back of the store. To his credit, the father took his son and walked out, vowing as he went to fight against such racism and discrimination. As Martin Luther King grew older, following his father's example, he studied, earned a college degree, and was ordained into the ministry. Racism was still widespread in the world in those days. In this country, which served in so many ways as an example of liberty, racial discrimination remained a tragic taint. Injustice held black Americans in a vice-like grip, making it harder for them to build a better life. Black Americans were forced into separate facilities. as they were bused past nearby schools to be put into segregated and sometimes inferior schools miles away. No matter how qualified for a job, they often knew they need not apply because their skin color, rather than their skills, might determine who filled the position. Roughly one-tenth of our people were forced to endure humiliating and degrading conditions. One such rule in one city required all blacks to sit in the back section of public buses. But sometimes a single human act of courage can change the world. In 1955 a brave woman named Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat and move to the back of the bus. She was arrested. When the bus company refused to change the rule, a young minister in a local Baptist church, Martin Luther King, Jr., helped organize a boycott that captured the attention of the country. In 6 months, the courts had ruled the segregation of public transportation to be unconstitutional. It was the first real test of Dr. King's nonviolent philosophy. He advocated nonviolence because he believed that with hard work and good will, people's hearts can be touched and progress can be made. Yet, progress is not easy. In his book, "The Strength To Love," Dr. King wrote, "Nothing pains some people more than having to think." Well, during the years following the bus boycott, Dr. King, with tremendous courage and resourcefulness, got a lot of Americans thinking. He was instrumental in getting passage of legislation that provided Federal protection for the crown jewel of American libertyevery American's right to vote. That legacy still lives. Last year I signed into law the longest extension of the Voting Rights Act since its passagea measure that will protect the right to vote for many years to come. In 1964 Dr. King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prizethe youngest man ever to earn that high award. Through his actions, his teachings, and his deep dedication to nonviolence, he opened the eyes of his fellow citizens. Civil rights legislation was passed, but perhaps even more important, he awakened the moral sense of an entire nation. He appealed to the good that is in our people. In 1968 Martin Luther King was brutally murdered, shot down by a cowardly assassin. He had remained true to his principles to the end, never succumbing to the hatred that had destroyed the effectiveness of lesser men. On the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, he had held a great and peaceful civil rights rally. He spoke there of a dreamhis dream for an America where there would be no place for hatred. His words are now a moving part of our history. Had he lived, the man we honor on this day would be only 54 years old. He cannot be with us. But today in Atlanta, Vice President Bush is attending a gathering honoring his 83-year-old father who did so much to start his son on the road to achievement and martyrdom. In honoring them both, we should look to the future as well as the past. Yes, we should be proud of the progress we've made. But we also must face the fact that 15 years after Martin Luther King's death, traces of bigotry and injustice still remain. So, let the anniversary of this courageous American's birth be for us both a time of thanksgiving and a time of renewal. Let us be grateful for the providence that sends among us men and women with the courage and vision to stand peacefully but unyieldingly for what is right. But let us also make this a time when we rededicate ourselves, young and old, black and white to carry on the work of justice and to totally reject the words and actions of hate embodied in groups like the Ku Klux Klan. Martin Luther King, Jr., showed us how much good a single life, well led, can accomplish. His death proved how much harm a single hand, intent on evil, can inflict. Let each of us honor his memory by pledging in our own lives to do everything we can to make America a place where his dream of freedom and brotherhood will grow and flourish from sea to shining sea. If we do this, then his sacrifice will not have been in vain, and we will have helped to make our country the special place we all know in our hearts that it was meant to be. Thank you for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: A week ago, Graham Washington Jackson, an ex-Navy musician, died in Atlanta at the age of 79. You probably don't recognize his name, but his face became familiar to millions of Americans when President Roosevelt died in Warm Springs, Georgia, in 1945. There's a very famous, very moving photo of Chief Petty Officer Jackson, tears streaming down his face while he played "Going Home" on his accordion as F. D. R.'s body was borne away by train to Washington. Mr. Jackson once said that as he began to play, "It seemed like every nail and every pin in the world just stuck in me." Mr. Jackson symbolized the grief of the Nation back in 1945, and I just wanted his own family to know the Nation hasn't forgotten their personal grief today, 38 years later. As I'm sure Mr. Jackson's family would tell you, in times of sorrow the warmth and support of a family's ties are especially important. I've spoken a great deal about the strength and virtues of the American family. I'd like to return to that topic today, because the family will again be a top priority as we head into the new yearfor the family is still the basic unit of religious and moral values that hold our society together. In the year ahead we face serious, painful problems, like unemployment. In a few days I'll speak about the economic situation facing us, but I also want you to know we'll not ignore the moral essentials in the coming months. As many of you know, I strongly support an amendment that will permit our children to hold prayer in our schools. The amendment would allow communities to determine for themselves whether voluntary prayer should be permitted in their public schools. We didn't get that amendment through the last Congress, but I'll continue to push for it in the next Congress. I believe that schoolchildren deserve the same right to pray that's enjoyed by the Congress and chaplains and troops in our armed services. The motto on our coinage reads, "In God We Trust." No one must ever be forced or pressured to take part in any religious exercise, but neither should the Government forbid religious practice. The public expression through prayer of our faith in God is a fundamental part of our American heritage and a privilege which should not be excluded from our schools. Today, 5 million American kids attend private schools because of the emphasis on religious values and educational standards. The overwhelming majority of these schools are church-supportedCatholic, Protestant, and Jewish. And the majority of students are from families earning less than $25,000. In many parochial schools the majority of students are from minority neighborhoods. In addition to private tuition, these families also pay their full share of taxes to fired the public schools. I think they're entitled to some relief, since they're supporting two school systems and only using one. Last year, as a matter of tax equity, we introduced legislation to give these families a break. We don't seek to aid the rich, but those lower- and middle-income families who are most strapped by taxes and the recession. In proposing tuition tax credits, we hope to provide greater choice and wider educational opportunity for our children. The Congress failed to pass the measure we proposed, but we're not giving up. In the coming session, we will again work to secure passage of tuition tax credits. There's another issue closely identified with families, although the issue itself often splits families apart. Ten years ago today, the Supreme Court overturned the State laws protecting the lives of the unborn. Heated debate on abortion has raged ever since. On one hand, there is the argument that a woman should have control over her own person. On the other hand, there is the argument that another life is involved herethe unborn child. That's the belief which has drawn many here to Washington today to march and to pray. I, too, have always believed that God's greatest gift is human life and that we have a duty to protect the life of an unborn child. Until someone can prove the unborn child is not a life, shouldn't we give it the benefit of the doubt and assume it is'? That's why I favored legislation to end the practice of abortion on demand and why I will continue to support it in the new Congress. Now, some of you may be thinking, "Well, he hasn't said a thing that's new." I guess that's true. Some values shouldn't change. But I want you to know there are certain family issues I'll advocate even though it's the budget and the economy that will be getting the headlines, especially in the days ahead. I realize, though, that to the family with a member unemployed, the economy is a family member. And I'll take that up in my State of the Union address Tuesday night. I hope you'll tune in. Until next week at this same time, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Monday, I will send to the Congress my budget message for fiscal year 1984. I wanted to give you a little preview of that message today. Much of the debate in the weeks and months ahead will focus on the deficit. That's a dirty word which awhile back I'd hoped might be a thing of the past by 1984. But the deficit is going to be large. And I wanted to tell you the whys and wherefores of this deficit dilemma and how our budget seeks to remedy it. Ironically, the deficit problem has been aggravated by our success in reducing inflation. You know, inflation is actually a form of taxation. During the 1970's, the government slyly got tax increases every year when cost-of-living pay raises pushed people into higher tax brackets. Well, we've pretty much strangled the inflation tax, and the result is that the Government no longer gets a free ride. If the Government wants or needs more tax money, it should openly raise taxes, not follow practices that create inflation. Of course, raising taxes isn't as safe politically as letting inflation do it. So, lowering inflation has been quite a shock to the system. Another reason the deficit is so burdensome is because the long recession has temporarily shrunk the number of people paying taxes. At the same time, the recession has added to the deficit by causing us to pay out more money in unemployment benefits, food stamps, and the like. The interest on the national debt is also a reason for the deficit. About 12 percent of our budget, $103 billion a year, goes just to pay the interest. Fortunately, inflation and interest rates are down, so we're not financing that debt at the very high interest rates we once were. But it is still a very big chunk. In fact, it's more than the whole Federal budget was just about 20 years ago. The necessary process of restoring our neglected national defense also has put pressure on our resources, but it's something we had to do. Where peace and freedom are at stake, we can't afford to gamble. And the fact is that the real purchasing power devoted to maintaining our military declined by a startling 20 percent in recent years. Finally, despite our great strides in reducing the growth in spending over the last 2 years, the vast majority of domestic spending programs are still in place. The result of all this is that deficits have now reached towering levels that east a pall of uncertainty over the financial markets and threaten to slow and weaken the economic recovery ahead of us. Well, I don't intend to let that happen. As I outlined in my State of the Union message, I'm advocating sweeping changes designed to reduce the mounting Federal deficits that threaten our economic growth. And here's what I propose. First, I will recommend an overall Federal spending freeze. So far, we've only cut the rate of increase in Federal spending. The government has continued to spend more money each yearjust not as much more. We've got to do something about that, so I propose the budget for 1984 will increase no more than the rate of inflation. This will include a 6-month freeze in the cost-of-living adjustments recommended by the bipartisan Social Security Commission and a 1-year freeze on Federal employee pay and retirement programs. Now, while this means that defense spending will be up and nondefense spending, in total, will be down, it doesn't mean that all nondefense programs are being cut. In fact, some of them are increasing at even a greater rate than defense. Second, I propose to adjust our program to restore America's defense by making $55 billion in defense savings over the next 5 years. The Secretary of Defense has assured me these reductions can be achieved without diminishing our ability to negotiate arms reductions or endangering our security. Third, I'll ask the Congress to adopt specific measures to control the growth of spending for entitlement programs. Now, these are programs that have automatic increases built into them by legislation passed by Congress. When we submit the budget, we have to accept those built-in raises. Well, we arefor the first timeproposing some badly needed structural reforms, tailoring the benefits and eligibility rules to serve those with genuine need. In the food stamp program alone, last year we identified almost $1.1 billion in overpayments. This kind of error and waste takes money from those who really need benefits. We want to put a stop to it. I'm also proposing certain cost controls and incentives for economies in health care and measures to prune back the unaffordable costs of the Federal retirement system. Fourth, I am proposing a standby tax that wouldn't start until 1986, and wouldn't start at all unless the deficit is greater than 2 1/2 percent of the gross national product. And even then, it won't start unless Congress has first passed our spending cuts. You might call this tax a safety net for the deficit. This way we can preserve the tax cuts and tax indexing we've already won for the American people and still have a fallback mechanism in place to cap the deficit if need be. As I said the other night, America is on the mend. The leading economic indicators are up in December for the eighth time in the last 9 months. The auto companies are calling people back to work. General Motors alone is calling back more than 21,000 auto workers over the next 3 months. Construction contracts last month rose to the highest level in 3 years. And housing starts are up. But in spite of the improving economy, much still needs to be done for the unemployed. In the days ahead, I will submit legislation designed to get at the special problems of the long-term unemployed and young people seeking to enter the job market. I'll propose extending unemployment benefits, including incentives to employers who hire the long-term unemployed. We will also seek more money for the programs benefiting displaced workers in the Job Training Partnership Act adopted last year. Our budget is fair and realistic. It is a budget that will position America to take full advantage of the recovery. I look forward to working in a bipartisan spirit with the Congress in passing this budget. Till next time, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you about a word. It's a word we've all been hearing a lot lately. The word is "Reaganomics." Somewhere along the line, our economic program got tagged with that label. To tell you the truth, it isn't a name I would have chosen. It sounds like a fad diet or an aerobic exercise. But we seem to be stuck with it. With every anchorman on the evening news, a goodly share of political pundits, and more than a few politicos using it, it has a good chance of becoming standard Americana. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that, except that it's used as a term for something that's supposed to have failed. So if you don't mind, I'm asking for equal timewell, at least, for about the next 5 minutes. We are, and have been for some time, in a recession. Unemployment was running at 10.8 percent as the year ended. But we learned yesterday the welcome news that it dropped to 10.4 percent in January. And if you include our men and women in the military as part of the work force, which makes sense, it's down to 10.2 percent. Still, only about two-thirds of our industrial capacity is being used. Our government is facing large deficits, and interest rates are still too high. And we're told all of this is the result of an economic program put into place by our administration and which, for obvious reasons, is called Reaganomics. I know some will say I'm being defensive, but I'll risk that, because in the weeks ahead decisions are going to be made here in Washington that will have a bearing on whether unemployment continues to go down and the economy continues to turn up. You will help determine some of these decisions because public opinion does influence government. Therefore, you must have a clear fix on the facts, the economic realities. Thomas Jefferson said, "If the people know the truth, they'll never make a mistake." So, let's start with some dates. Back in 1979 inflation was rising, unemployment was increasing, and by 1980 we were in a recession. Unemployment had reached such a point in the last half of 1980 that I referred to it as a depression. I was criticized for that by technical-minded people who said it was only a recession. But you'll have to forgive me. I was campaigning in Flint, Michigan, where the unemployment rate was already 20 percent; in Detroit it was 18 percent, and across the line in Ohio, steel mills were closing. In an Indiana city, unemployment was 23 percent. Inflation was in double digits for 1979 and '80 and reached 14 percent during the 1980 campaign. Interest rates went to 21 1/2 percent, and the housing industry was at a standstill. Our administration opened up shop on January 20th, 1981. The prime interest was still above 20 percent, inflation was 12.4, and unemployment was 7.3 percent. The 1981 budget had already been put in place by the previous administration and began on October 1st, 1980. Now, there was nothing we could do about that budgetit wasn't oursalthough we did manage to squeeze out a few billion dollars through some management changes. For the most part, however, we were engaged in a struggle to get our budget proposals for 1982 adopted and the other part of our economic recovery programtax cuts for all Americans to help stimulate the economy. All the time, interest rates stayed high, unemployment kept increasing and, by July, the bottom had fallen out. About this same time, our economic program, most of it, was passedmajor reductions in the growth of spending and a 25-percent cut in income tax rates to be phased in over a 3-year period. But none of this went into effect until October 1, 1981. The first portion of the tax cut was only 5 percent; another 10 percent would take place in July of 1982. Reaganomics, as they would have it, started only 16 months ago. There was another 10-percent cut in the income tax scheduled for this coming July. Now, what has happened in those 16 months of Reaganomics? Well, with the help of the Federal Reserve Board, inflation has dropped to only 3.9 percent for all of 1982, the lowest it's been in 10 years. Interest rates are about half what they were. The effect of that is a 40-percent increase in housing starts. Automobile sales are up, as are all retail sales. Factory orders have begun to increase. One timber company I know of, which a year ago today was completely shut down, is now on two shifts a day, 5 days a week. Real wages are up for the first time in 3 years. And the rate of personal savings is up, meaning more capital for investment. And, as I've already mentioned, "the lagging indicator," as it's called, unemployment, just took its first drop10.8 to 10.4. A survey of business establishments shows somewhere around 300,000 more people working. We've a long way to go, but that's a start at last. Now, I've seen in the flesh some of these statistics I've quoted. A few days ago, I visited a Chrysler plant in Fenton, Missouri, where 1,700 workers are being called back to a newly modernized plant. Another plant will be calling back an additional 1,500 workers by late summer. In nearby Hazelwood, the Ford plant was adding another entire shift. And General Motors has announced it plans to call back more than 21,000 of the indefinite layoffs over the next few months. For 8 out of the last 9 months, the leading economic indicators have been up. In the weeks ahead, there'll be debates as to what course we should follow. The choice that will be offered is to turn away from our economic recovery program and go back to what was being done before. May I point out, all of the good things I've mentioned didn't begin until after our program, Reaganomics, if you will, was put in place. Prior to that, everything had been a mess for 3 years or more. I wonder if they'll still use that name when they've found out it works. Until next time, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today, all over our land, we remember the birth of one of our greatest sons, Abraham Lincolnthe self-educated backwoodsman who became a lawyer, Congressman, and President. Whoever would understand in their hearts the meaning of America will find it in the life of Abe Lincoln. I was told once that if you stand to one side of his statue at the Lincoln Memorial, you can see the profile of a man of strength and wisdom, and by standing on the other side, the profile of a man of compassion. Well, I did that, and it's true. He taught us the true meaning of "We, the people .... " He made us understand that no man is good enough to govern another man without that other's consent. And he lived by his words. "I am not bound to win, but am bound to be true." In the spirit of Lincoln, America has carried forward the dream of democracy, guaranteeing political rights for all her citizens. And as our nation has matured, we have sought to meet more fully the obligations that spring from our national conscience. In the history of mankind, there has never been a people who've strived harder or done more than we Americans to help all who are truly in need. This administration is committed to carry on that tradition. When the first stage of our economic program was passed a year and a half ago, I said, "America now has an economic plan for her future. We're going forward, and we're not leaving anyone behind." Well, getting our economy back on sound footing has been a long, tough haul, and the job isn't done yet. But evidence grows that the worst of what we inherited is behind us. The economy is improving. Recovery has begun. What about the second part of our pledgeto make sure no one in America is left behind? Now, I know that some have charged that the social safety net is in shreds. Well, if I may quote Lincoln one more time, "Truth is generally the best vindication against slander." By and large, our administration is being criticized for our sincere and, I might add, long overdue attempts to target benefits to the truly needy and to reduce benefits for those who should be able to manage for themselves. Now, let me give you a few figures: Welfare, medical, nutrition, and housing assistance for our most needy citizens, plus compensation for the unemployed, is almost one-fourth, 24 percent higher in the fiscal 1984 budget than it was in 1981. In our fiscal year 1984 budget we've proposed $93 billion in assistance for the needy and unemployed. Twenty-three years ago, the Federal Government wasn't spending $93 billion on its entire budget. Look at one specific areanutrition assistance programs. The doom and gloom criers have been having a lot of fun with the charge that we're increasing hunger. Well, the facts are this administration is committed to providing adequate nutritional assistance to all who need it. And we're fulfilling that commitment. The Federal Government is subsidizing 95 million meals a day. Meal subsidies are now being targeted more heavily than ever toward children from low-income households. Nutrition standards are being maintained. More people are receiving food stamps than ever before, and average benefits per person have grown at a rate faster than food price inflation. Yes, there has been a slight reduction in the number of school lunches, but that's because there's been a reduction in enrollment. Here's another myth from the misery merchants: They've frightened too many Americans dependent on social security into believing our administration would take away their checks. I have pledged repeatedly that we have only one goalto save a system badly in need of repair. The best thing that could happen to social security is to get it out of the news, out of politics, and back into the confidence of the American people. With cooperation from the Congress, we can pass the Social Security Commission's bipartisan plan and start to do just that. What about their charge that we're slashing spending on social programs to spend more on defense? Well, it's true that we're requesting $1.6 trillion in defense spending over the next 5 years. But I'll bet you haven't heard that during this same period, spending budgeted for entitlement programs will be over $2 trillion or $500 billion more than defense. What we propose to spend on defense is a much smaller part of the Federal budget and our total economy than was being spent 10, 20, 30 years ago. Yet the threat to America's freedom is greater than it was in those earlier times. So, let me repeat, far from trying to destroy what is best in our system of humane, free government, we're doing everything we can to save it by slowing down the destructive rate of growing in taxes and spending and by pruning non-essential programs. This way enough resources will be left to meet the requirements of the truly needy, and we will meet the challenge of fairness. The most unfair situation was the one our people were trapped in before, when record inflation, taxes, and interest rates were slamming shut the gates of prosperity on every American family. We're out of that trap now. If we work together, we can have a healthy and lasting economic recovery. As Lincoln once said in another turbulent time, "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." Well, America met her test then. With your help, we'll do it again. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This Monday will mark the 251st birthday of George Washington, the Father of our Country. Unlike Abraham Lincoln, Franklin Roosevelt, and most other famous Presidents, Washington was not a great orator or man of words. He was, above all, a man of action and character. His courage, firmness, and integrity first led a ragged, outnumbered army to triumph against the mightiest empire of his time and then guided our infant republic to maturity as the first President of the United States. George Washington didn't say much, but when he did speak, as both a soldier and a statesman, what he said was worth listening to. As President, in his first annual address to the Congress, he offered a wise piece of advice on defense preparedness that is as timely today as it was when he uttered it nearly two centuries ago. "To be prepared for war," George Washington said, "is the most effectual means of preserving the peace." When I reread this quote a few days ago, it brought to mind the current public debate over this administration's efforts to protect the peace by restoring our country's neglected defenses. Now, I know that this is a hard time to call for increased defense spending. It isn't easy to ask American families who are already making sacrifices in the recession, or American businesses which are struggling to reinvest for the future, and it isn't easy for someone like me who's dedicated his entire political career to reducing government spending. On the other hand, it's always very easy and very tempting politically to come up with arguments for neglecting defense spending in time of peace. One of the great tragedies of this century was that it was only after the balance of power was allowed to erode and a ruthless adversary, Adolf Hitler, deliberately weighed the risks and decided to strike that the importance of a strong defense was realized too late. That was what happened in the years leading up to World War II. And especially for those of us who lived through that nightmare, it's a mistake that America and the free world must never make again. I want you to know that members of my administration and I have agonized over the current defense budget. We've trimmed back our plans for rebuilding defense by more than half. We've hunted for savings in nonessential programs. We've weighed economic risks and economic benefits. The defense budget we finally presented is a minimal budget to protect our country's vital interests and meet our commitments. For those who wish to cut it back further, I have a simple question. Which interests and which commitments are they ready to abandon? Let me make just a few key points about our defense program. First, we must develop a responsible and balanced understanding of the danger we face. Over the past 20 years, the Soviet Union has accumulated enormous military might, while we restrained our own efforts to the point where defense spending actually declined, in real terms, over 20 percent in the decade of the seventies. Today, the Soviets out-invest us by nearly 2 to 1. Even with the defense increases of the past 2 years, they outproduce us substantially in almost every category of weapons. And in actions such as the brutal invasion and occupation of Afghanistan, they have demonstrated their willingness to use these weapons for aggression. Finally, Soviet military power has spread around the globe, threatening our access to vital resources and our sea lines of communication, undermining our forward line of defense in Europe and Korea, and challenging us even at home, here in our own hemisphere. We must face the facts. If we continue our past pattern of only rebuilding our defenses in fits and starts, we will never convince the Soviets that it's in their interests to behave with restraint and negotiate genuine arms reductions. We will also burden the American taxpayer time and again with the high cost of crash rearmament. Sooner or later, the bills fall due. For instance, our land-based missiles were designed in the 1950's and installed in the sixties, and many of the pilots of our B-52 bombers are younger than the planes they fly. The fact is these past fits and starts in a decade of neglecting our defenses have left this administration, this Congress, and the American taxpayer stuck with double duty. We had to act quickly to increase the basic readiness and staying power of our forces so that they could meet any immediate crisis if one arose. At the same time, we have to make up for lost years of investment by undertaking the research and development and the force modernization needed to meet crises that could arise in the future. We simply cannot afford [avoid] performing this double duty unless we're willing to gamble with our immediate security and pass on to future generations the legacy of neglect we inherited. That kind of neglect would only weaken peace and stability in the world, both now and in the years ahead. I have lived through two world wars. I saw the American people rise to meet these crises, and I have faith in their willingness to come to their nation's defense in the future. But it's far better to prevent a crisis than to have to face it unprepared at the last moment. That's why we have an overriding moral obligation to invest now, this year, in this budget, in restoring America's strength to keep the peace and preserve our freedom. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to talk to you about a subject that touches on all of us one way or anotherin our homes, schools, at workplaces, and in the overall economy. I want to talk about one of our major energy sourcesnatural gasand what this administration proposes to do to ensure abundant supplies of it at reasonable prices. As the situation stands now, the American consumer is being hurt by government regulations that actually contribute to higher gas bills. We want to change that. Now, I know all too well that energy is a subject that some people in public life just can't resist playing politics with. It's unfortunate, but I guess it's a fact of life, or at least a fact of life as we know it in Washington, which can be pretty different from hometown America. Many of you, I'm sure, recall the howls that went up when we acted to deregulate oil prices 2 years ago. Remember how you were told that deregulation would lead to skyrocketing prices for the gasoline that fuels millions of American ears, or the oil that heats millions of American homes? Well, the evidence is in, and the doomsayers were dead wrong. You don't have to go any further than the nearest filling station to see that prices have gone down, not up, since decontrol, just as we promised they would. The economic realities of the marketplace have done more to bring down the price of oil than all those years of frenetic government regulating. I think there's a lesson here for all of us and one that goes a lot deeper than the price of energy. Way back in 1824, Thomas Jefferson wrote about the difference between two kinds of political mentalities. Both of them are still very much with us today. Here's what Jefferson said about them: "Men by their constitutions are naturally divided into two partiesthose who fear and distrust the people, and wish to draw all powers from them and those who identify themselves with the people and have confidence in them." Now, the vast majority of us identify with the second group, the one that believes in trusting the wisdom of the people rather than taking power away from them and concentrating it in the other hands. On a more personal level, anyone who's ever wrestled with a tax form or had to make sense out of a complicated bureaucratic regulation knows how costly and time-consuming government overregulation can be. And that brings me back to regulation; in this case, regulation of natural gas. I'm convincedand I believe that the evidence backs me upthat just as deregulation of oil has led to a better deal for the American consumer, a freer market in natural gas will have the same beneficial effect for you. So, next week I'm sending the Congress a proposal for correcting the problems that have resulted from past excessive regulation of the natural gas market. While I'm taking this step out of the deep belief in the principle involved, there are human reasons as well. In recent months, thousands of you have written to me, to Members of Congress, and to State and local officials expressing your distress about rapidly rising natural gas bills. Some areas of the country have been especially hard-hit, and it's clear that consumers are being poorly and unfairly served by the existing regulatory system. That system prevents natural gas producers and their customers from entering into contracts that respond to market forces, including pressure for lower prices that are now possible due to plentiful gas supplies and declining oil prices. Today there's a surplus of natural gas, and oil prices are dropping. These factors normally would result in lower natural gas prices. But the regulatory morass has kept the marketplace from achieving lower natural gas prices. In sharp contrast, the Department of Energy estimates that if our proposal is enacted, natural gas prices will drop by at least 10 to 30 cents per thousand cubic feet in the first year. The measure I will submit to the Congress is not a partisan plan, and it resorts to no quick political fixes. Instead, our approach is a comprehensive proposal that can, and I believe will be supported by Congressmen and Senators of both parties and will benefit the consumers they represent. Basically, our legislative package will allow a freer market for natural gas so that there will be real and long-term incentives to produce and market abundant gas supplies at the lowest possible cost, just as gasoline and home heating oil prices have declined since we deregulated oil. Although we believe free markets not only can but will achieve these results, we aren't asking you, the consumer, to take that on faith. To assure that consumers are protected, I have insisted on a provision which reverses the present law and provides that until 1986, there will be a moratorium on the automatic pass-through to consumers of increased gas costs by the gas pipelines, other than those caused by inflation, which, as you know, has been declining steadily. The key to cheaper, more abundant energy for all Americans is a policy that combines consumer protection, incentives to produce, and efficient, economic use of our resources. That's what our program will do. And I look forward to working closely with Members of both parties in the Congress to obtain its passage without delay. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to talk about jobs for our people. Now, without sounding too much like I'm giving a lecture, there are two basic types of unemploymentcyclical and structural. Cyclical unemployment results from changes in the business cycle, the ups and downs of the overall economy. Almost half of our current unemployment program [problem] is cyclicalthe direct result of the recession. The best cure for cyclical unemployment is to get the economy moving again, and our economic program is doing just that. Recently, the figures for industrial production, housing starts and sales and new orders for manufactured durable goods have all been good news. Just this week the index of leading economic indicators, a harbinger of what's to come, registered the biggest single jump in 33 years. This improving economy will assist those who suffer from cyclical unemployment as business picks up and workers are called back to stores, factories, offices, and construction sites around the country. As you know, the unemployment rate dropped in January and then held to that level in February. I've said before, unemployment always lags behind the rest of the recovery. But the rate will be heading downward. The other economic indicators are too encouraging for it to hold out much longer. We here in Washington can ease the transition for the cyclically unemployed with short-term help. We can move up job opportunities by accelerating certain government projects and aiding those in deep distress. The Congress and I are working out our differences on such legislation right now, and I would hope it could be on my desk for signature within the next week. Now, the other kind of unemployment is structural. Structural unemployment is not the result of temporary slumps in the economy. It is caused by deep and lasting changes in science, technology, competitiveness, and skills. The structurally unemployed are those who don't have the skills demanded in today's workplace. Generally, we're talking about the long-term unemployed-the displaced workers from declining industries and the young who lack work training and experience. I know this is pretty dry stuff, but I think it's important to explain because structural unemployment is a problem that will be with us for some time. And, remember, that behind those dry terms are peopleblack teenagers who desperately want a first job and older workers grappling with the adjustment of losing their life's work. Up until now, no one has successfully addressed structural unemployment on a national scale. But next week, I will send the Congress a proposal that brings some important new approaches to the problem. We want to provide incentives for businesses to hire the long-term unemployed. Under our proposal, a worker who's been unemployed for an extended period could convert the unemployment benefits he receives into job vouchers which would entitle his new employer to a tax credit. The overwhelming majority of those who've been unemployed for long periods would gladly trade their benefits for a job, if they could only find one. What they're looking for is an opportunity to become productive again. This voucher system gives them a better chance to do just that. We also want to increase by about 10-fold to $240 million the funding for that part of the Job Training Partnership Act that helps displaced workers. This program will offer matching grants to the States for retraining, job search, and relocation assistance to displaced workers. And we also propose allowing States to use up to 2 percent of their unemployment insurance tax revenues-that could mean an estimated $374 million of additional fundsfor reemployment assistance. And, of course, I'm asking the Congress for over $3 billion for those programs that last year replaced the ineffective CETA program, where only 18 percent of the money was actually used for training the unskilled. That old cliche that you can't get a job until you have experience and you can't get experience until you have a job really is true for too many young people, especially our minority young people, among whom the unemployment rate is a staggering 45 percent for black teenagers. One of the main reasons many youngsters have difficulty finding jobs, especially their first job, is the minimum wage. Employers simply aren't willing to pay this set wage rate to youth with no work experience. So, to help young people find jobs, I propose a youth opportunity wage at $2.5 per hour, 25 percent below the regular minimum rate of $3.35. Young people, of course, don't have to accept this amount, and I know many will be able to command the regular minimum wage. But this new wage will allow youngsters who don't have any experience to make a start in the workplace. What we're trying to do is get them some experience so they can move up the payscale. Some people have feared that as a result of the new youth wage, businesses would replace adults with young people. Well, we've taken precautions so that won't happen. First of all, the youth wage will only be available during the summer months, when kids are out of school. And second, we will add provisions that absolutely prohibit businesses from displacing current workers by hiring young people at a lesser wage. The American economy is on the mend. And one of the reasons is that we've finally begun to correct some of the past errors of government that brought on inflation, high interest rates, and recession. But as the economy mends, government can help to ease the painful transition for many of our people. The proposals I've outlined today do this by assisting the unemployed in finding the training, the help, and the jobs they desire and deserve. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about one of the most important issues that touches our lives and shapes our future: the education of America's children. We've always had a love affair with learning in this country. America is a melting pot, and education has been a mainspring for our democracy and freedom, a means of providing gifts of knowledge and opportunity to all citizens, no matter how humble their background, so they could climb higher, help build the American dream, and leave a better life for those who follow. Broad educational opportunity not only secured our role as the pathbreaker to progress, it also protected and strengthened our freedom. We were wise enough to heed Thomas Jefferson's warning that "any nation which expects to be ignorant and free expects what never was and never will be." But in recent years, our traditions of opportunity and excellence in education have been under siege. We've witnessed the growth of a huge education bureaucracy. Parents have often been reduced to the role of outsiders. Government-manufactured inflation made private schools and higher education too expensive for too many families. Even God, source of all knowledge, was expelled from classrooms. It's time to face the truth. Advocates of more and more government interference in education have had ample time to make their case, and they've failed. Look at the record. Federal spending on education soared eightfold in the last 20 years, rising much faster than inflation. But during the same period, scholastic aptitude test scores went down, down, and down. The classroom should be an entrance to life, not an escape from it. As the leader of the free world, the United States must strengthen its defenses, modernize its industries, and move confidently into a new era of high technology. To do this, we need a smart and highly skilled work force. Yet, only one-sixth of our high school graduates have taken junior and senior level courses in science and math. And many U.S. high schools do not offer sufficient math to prepare graduates for engineering schools. America can do better. We must move forward again by returning to the sound principles that never failed us when we lived up to them. Can we not begin by welcoming God back in our schools and by setting an example for children by striving to abide by His Ten Commandments and the Golden Rule? We've sent an amendment to the Congress that will permit voluntary prayer in school again. But better education doesn't mean a bigger Department of Education. In fact, that Department should be abolished. Instead, we must do a better job teaching the basics, insisting on discipline and results, encouraging competition and, above all, remembering that education does not begin with Washington officials or even State and local officials. It begins in the home, where it is the right and responsibility of every American. Parents and teachers have the toughest, sometimes the most thankless, but always the most important jobs in America. They need our help and support. Our administration has put together an education package that addresses the challenge of restoring opportunity to families and excellence in our schools. It contains several proposals to help parents reestablish control and to assist them in meeting education costs. First, tuition tax credits, which we've already sent to the Congress, will soften the double-payment burden for those paying public school taxes and independent or parochial school tuition. This proposal will help those who need help the mostlow and middle-income families. Second, we're proposing a voucher system to help parents of disadvantaged children. We want to give States or individual school districts the option of using certain Federal education funds to create vouchers so these parents can choose which school, private or public, they want their children to attend. Third, we're proposing a system of educational savings accounts to help families save for college education. Parents will be able to save up to $1,000 per year, per child, with no tax on the interest. These proposals will expand opportunities by allowing parents to keep more of their own money, rather than taxing it away to finance bigger bureaucracies. They will also increase healthy competition among schools. Without a race, there can be no champion, no records broken, no excellence in education or any other walk of life. We're talking about no less than the future of this nation. Last Monday, I was pleased to meet 40 of America's top high school math and science students. I told them that science and technology are keys to prosperity, learning, and a better quality of life. We've already sent legislation to the Congress to stimulate training of more math and science teachers. Another program we've proposed will encourage existing math and science teachers to go back to school themselves to update their own knowledge. And we're also beginning a new program, one I intend to participate in myself, to honor some of America's best science and math teachers. They are a true national resource. Private sector initiatives can also make great contributions. We're encouraging corporations, community organizations, and neighborhood groups across the country to adopt schools and help them meet their education needs with funds, equipment, and personnel. Finally, to combat adult illiteracy, we will encourage college students to provide tutoring, either through voluntary community service or as part of our expanded workstudy program. Just as we're now seeing a healthy revival of our national economy, we can improve America's educational system and make it the best in the world again. But we must not delay. I hope we'll have your support and the cooperation of the Congress. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow at 11:30 p.m. is the first day of spring, and it coincides with an important change in our economy. A season of hope is giving way to a season of progress. We're seeing the proof that our great national struggle to make our economy well again is beginning to pay off. Yes, we have a long way to go, but factories are reopening, workers called back, production in housing, autos, and steel picking up, and new breakthroughs in high technology busting out all over. America is moving forward. The economy is growing strongerand stronger than most people, including ourselves, predicted. The question is no longer will we have recovery, but how long will recovery last? It's been nearly 20 years since the United States enjoyed a long-lasting economic expansion that didn't trigger ruinous inflation and high interest rates. We're trying to build that kind of recovery now. We can have it if we stick to common sense and don't go back to the big spending and taxing addiction that brought this economy to its knees in 1980. Unfortunately, it's still true that the more things change, the more they stay the same. America is on the mend, but this recovery could be stopped dead in its tracks if big spenders in the Congress have their way. I was greatly encouraged when we had some bipartisan success on a couple of sticky problems. But unfortunately, those who place their faith in big government and heavy spending reverted to type. Right now, House liberals are pushing a budgetthe so-called liberal Democratic budgetthat, if implemented, would reverse the progress we've made and wreck our program to rebuild the economy. They want to throw out the window much of the domestic budget savings we've achieved over the last 2 years. And they would go much further, seeking $181 billion in higher domestic spending over the next 5 years, excesses that would send the budget, prices, and interest rates soaring out of control and our economy into a tailspin. To cite just one example, Medicare would be driven into bankruptcy by the failure of their budget to address its problems. Our proposed budget meets the needs of our people without bankrupting the system. Now, how do they propose to pay for their reckless binge? Two ways: by compromising America's defense security and by slapping massive new tax increases on every working family. Ignoring the Soviets' tremendous advantage in military forces, the liberals would cripple our efforts to modernize America's defenses. To put it bluntly, their budget gambles with our security and safety. Their proposed $163 billion cut in defense spending over the next 5 years would put the United States right back in the position of military vulnerability we were in after a decade of neglect in the 1970's. We were shocked to learn when we got here that we had so many ships that couldn't leave port, planes that couldn't take off, and helicopters that couldn't stay aloftall of this because of our lack of spare parts, sometimes of crew, inability to keep things repaired, or shortage of fuel. We've begun to do something about that, and we've made real progress with our investment in peace through strength. But passage of the liberal budget would seriously undermine our rebuilding progress. Here are just some of the things that we might have to do if they have their way: deactivate one active and one reserve division; decommission one entire carrier battle group and some two dozen other ships; deactivate three Marine Corps fighter squadrons; deactivate two active and two reserve Air Force tactical fighter wings and six continental U.S. air defense squadrons; terminate major weapons programs from each service; sacrifice hard-won gains in readiness and sustainability by cutting our budgets for major repairs and ammunition by 25 percent and by cutting back on troop exercises and training. Such cuts would send the worst possible signal to the Kremlin. They would remove Soviet incentives to negotiate arms reductions with us because we'd be telling them, "Stand firm, the United States will disarm itself." Remember, they would do this on the pretext of reducing the deficit. They would really be doing it so they could increase spending on other things by $181 billion. The other part of the liberal budget is a huge $315 billion tax increase on wage earners. And here, too, they would pretend to reduce the Federal deficit, but by putting you deeper in the hole. That never works, and nothing could be more unfair or less compassionate. Their unfair tax increases would put a choke hold on Main Street America. They would eliminate the third year of your tax cut, which provides maximum benefit to families earning between $10,000 and $50,000, the very same families they claim we're hurting. But they are the families who will benefit most by the July tax cut. They also want to eliminate our historic reform of tax indexing. Indexing will protect you from being pushed into a higher tax bracket when you get a cost-of-living raise. Indexing prevents government from stealing a greater percentage of your earnings and leaving you with less purchasing power. And indexing helps low- and medium-income wage earners the most for one simple reason: The rich are immune to bracket creep. They're already in the top tax brackets. Indexing won't help them a bit. Attempts to take away the third year of your tax cut and indexing are simply gimmicks so they can spend more of your money. A typical median-income family would have to pay $3,550 in higher taxes through 1988. The people who want to do this are the same ones who left us with 12.4 percent inflation in 1980 and the highest interest rates in more than 100 years. Well, let me make one thing plain: After all our national struggle to reduce inflation, to begin controlling a government which grew bloated at your expense, to bring down interest rates and make the dollar worth something again; after helping you to increase personal savings, worker productivity, and our industrial and military strength; after winning the fight to lower your taxes so we could restore hope and build new incentives into the economyafter all these hard-won victories earned through the patience and courage of every citizen, I don't want America's recovery and security to be sacrificed on an altar of discredited hand-me-down theories. And if you'll help us, they won't be. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As I'm sure you heard, the majority in the House of Representatives passed its budget resolution this week. Since the vote on that budget was announced by those who supported it, they've proclaimed it a great victory over me. You, the people, are treated as mere spectators in the contest. But you weren't. You were down on the field very much in that game. And if those proposals ever become law, you'll find you're on the losing team. Let me remind you what lies at the heart of that liberal budgeta $315 billion tax increase over the next 5 years, falling squarely on the backs of you who work and earn to support your families and pay the government's bills. It's not just a coincidence that that $315 billion they want to raise would require canceling the third year of your tax cut, due in July, and tax indexing. Three-quarters of that tax increase would have to be paid by low- and Middle-income families and many of you who are already living from paycheck to paycheck. Indexing is an historic reform that'll put an end to bracket creep. The unfair thing about our present income tax system is that it's based on the number of dollars you earn, not their value. As you earn a greater number of dollars, you're pushed into a higher tax bracket, and the government takes a higher percentage of your paycheck, even though you might only be receiving a cost-of-living raise to stay even with inflation. Indexing puts an end to the injustice of bracket creep. Indexing is not a tax cut per se; it prevents an automatic tax increase and keeps you from getting poorer. How can those who talk so much about fairness and compassion turn around and take away the third year of your tax cut and the indexing? How can they justify hitting the median-income family with a $3,550 tax increase over the next 5 years? How can they pretend to help you cope with your bills, put money aside for education, and save for your retirement when they're reaching deeper and deeper into your pockets? They can't. And they won't, if we don't let them. It's not right for them to overtax you just so they can spend more. And they do want to spend morea lot more. Their budget would cancel virtually all the savings we've made in the last 2 years. It would turn back the clock to the high inflation, high interest rate nightmare of 1980 by giving a green light to at least 10 brand new government spending programs. At the same time, it would allow a program of crucial importance to our senior citizens-Medicareto go bankrupt. It would wipe out our initiatives to reduce food stamp waste, despite documented evidence that food stamp rip-off artists plunder the system and cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars a year. In all, the liberal alternative budget would approve nearly $200 billion in additional inflationary spending. Make no mistake, this money cannot be retrieved and the deficit reduced, as they claim, by slashing defense spending authority by more than $200 billion. Once you begin reducing personnel in our armed services, closing down aircraft plants, decommissioning ships, fighter squadrons, and one weapons program after another, you not only gamble with America's security, you create a new army of unemployed. And that means the deficit would go up, not down. It's this simple: If you liked the 21-percent prime interest rate, 18-percent mortgage rates, double-digit inflation, and sky-is-the-limit tax increases of 2 years ago, you'll love their budget, because that's what it would bring back. Those who fought to get this budget passed are the same people who began saying our economic program had failed almost the day it was passed. That was more than a year ago, and much of our tax reduction program is still not in place today. But more and more evidence is coming in that proves America is on the mend and recovery has definitely begun. Last Monday the Commerce Department estimated that during these first 3 months of 1983, our economy will grow at an annual rate of 4 percent. And we believe the recovery will pick up strength as the year goes on. The double-digit inflation of 1980, which drove up costs and robbed you of your earnings, has been knocked all the way down to four-tenths of 1 percent in the last 6 monthsthe lowest 6-month rate in 22 years. This February consumer prices actually declined for only the second time since 1965. The first time was in December. Those towering interest rates which closed factory gates and industries like autos and steel, leveled the housing industry, and brought so many small businesses to their knees have now been knocked down themselves. The prime rate was 21.5 percent in 1980; today it's down to 10.5. I believe interest rates can, should, and will go lower. As inflation and interest rates come down and our tax cuts come on stream, families have more to spend or save, as you wish. And that is why savings and productivity are growing again. Recently I received a letter from the president of a family-owned lumber company in Minneapolis, one whichlike so many other small firmshas been hard-hit by the recession. But now this man's mood has turned optimistic. He told me that his sales for the months of December and January were the best for 3 months in his company's 50-year history. And he wrote, "Mr. President, don't get stampeded into some ill-conceived pump-priming scheme that will lead to another round of inflation boom and bust. You were elected to break that cycle. What you've done is working." Well, my answer to that fine gentleman is, "I won't be stampeded. I intend to do everything I can to protect this recovery all of us have worked so hard to achieve." But this isn't just my struggle; it's yours, too. You're not spectators, and I need your help. Together we still have time to beat back the unfair tax increases, hold the line on spending, and keep America strong. If you can't make the big spenders see the light, you can make them feel the heat. Please tell your Representatives not to turn back the clock and squander America's future. Tell them to work with us to keep America on the upswing. If you do, we can usher in a bright new age of prosperity that outshines any other in our history. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week as American families draw together in worship, we join with millions upon millions of others around the world also celebrating the traditions of their faiths. During these days, at least, regardless of nationality, religion, or race, we are united by faith in God, and the barriers between us seem less significant. Observing the rites of Passover and Easter, we're linked in time to the ancient origins of our values and to the unborn generations who will still celebrate them long after we're gone. As Paul explained in his Epistle to the Ephesians, "He came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near. So then you were no longer strangers and aliens, but you were fellow citizens of God's household." This is a time of hope and peace, when our spirits are filled and lifted. It's a time when we give thanks for our blessings-chief among them, freedom, peace, and the promise of eternal life. This week Jewish families and friends have been celebrating Passover, a tradition rich in symbolism and meaning. Its observance reminds all of us that the struggle for freedom and the battle against oppression waged by Jews since ancient times is one shared by people everywhere. And Christians have been commemorating the last momentous days leading to the crucifixion of Jesus 1,950 years ago. Tomorrow, as morning spreads around the planet, we'll celebrate the triumph of life over death, the Resurrection of Jesus. Both observances tell of sacrifice and pain but also of hope and triumph. As we look around us today, we still find human pain and suffering, but we also see it answered with individual courage and spirit, strengthened by faith. For example, the brave Polish people, despite the oppression of a godless tyranny, still cling to their faith and their belief in freedom. Shortly after Palm Sunday Mass this week, Lech Walesa faced a cheering crowd of workers outside a Gdansk church. He held his hand up in a sign of victory and predicted, "The time will come when we will win." Recently, an East German professor, his wife, and two daughters climbed into a 7-foot rowboat and crossed the freezing, wind-whipped Baltic to escape from tyranny. Arriving in West Germany after a harrowing 7-hour, 31-mile journey past East German border patrols, the man said he and his family had risked everything so that the children would have the chance to grow up in freedom. In Central America Communist-inspired revolution still spreads terror and instability, but it's no match for the much greater force of faith that runs so deep among the people. We saw this during Pope John Paul II's recent visit there. As he conducted a Mass in Nicaragua, state police jeered and led organized heckling by Sandinista supporters. But the Pope lifted a crucifix above his head and waved it at the crowd before him, then turned and symbolically held it up before the massive painting of Sandinista soldiers that loomed behind. The symbol of good prevailed. In contrast, everywhere else the Holy Father went in the region, spreading a message that only love can build, he was met by throngs of enthusiastic believers, eager for Papal guidance and blessing. In this Easter season when so many of our young men and women in the Armed Forces are stationed so very far from their homes, I can't resist recounting at least one example of their sacrifice and heroism. Every day I receive reports that would make you very proud, and today I'd like to share just one with you. While the San Diego-based U.S.S. Hoel was steaming toward Melbourne, Australia, on Ash Wednesday, its crew heard of terrible brush fires sweeping two Australian States. More than 70 people were killed and the destruction was great. Well, the crew of this American ship raised $4,000 from their pockets to help, but they felt that it wasn't enough. So, leaving only a skeleton crew aboard, the 100 American sailors gave up a day's shore leave, rolled up their sleeves, and set to work rebuilding a ruined community on the opposite end of the Earth. Just Americans being Americans, but something for all of us to be proud of. Stories like theseof men and women around the world who love God and freedom-bear a message of world hope and brotherhood like the rites of Passover and Easter that we celebrate this weekend. A grade school class in Somerville, Massachusetts, recently wrote me to say, "We studied about countries and found out that each country in our world is beautiful and that we need each other. People may look a little different, but we're still people who need the same things." They said, "We want peace. We want to take care of one another. We want to be able to get along with one another. We want to be able to share. We want freedom and justice. We want to be friends. We want no wars. We want to be able to talk to one another. We want to be able to travel around the world without fear." And then they asked, "Do you think that we can have these things one day?" Well, I do. I really do. Nearly 2,000 years after the coming of the Prince of Peace, such simple wishes may still seem far from fulfillment. But we can achieve them. We must never stop trying. The generation of Americans now growing up in schools across our country can make sure the United States will remain a force for good, the champion of peace and freedom, as their parents and grandparents before them have done. And if we live our lives and dedicate our country to truth, to love, and to God, we will be a part of something much stronger and much more enduring than any negative power here on Earth. That's why this weekend is a celebration and why there is hope for us all. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In just a few days, the date many of us dread more than any other will be upon usApril 15th, deadline for filing income tax returns. Like Federal employees, taxpayers also work for the Governmentthey just don't have to take a civil service exam. Here in America, land of opportunity, governments at all levels are taxing away 40 percent of our nation's income. We've been creeping closer to socialism, a system that someone once said works only in heaven, where it isn't needed, and in hell, where they've already got it. We know that the secret of America's success has been our drive to excel, a spirit born and nurtured by our families. With their dreams and hard work, they've built our nation, made her great, and kept her good. Everything we've accomplished began in those bedrock values parents have sought to impart throughout our history-values of faith in God, honesty, caring for others, personal responsibility, thrift, and initiative. But families cannot prosper and keep America strong if government becomes a Goliath that preys upon their wealth, usurps their rights, and crushes their spirit. For too many years, overgrown government has stood in your way, taking more and more of what you earned, no matter how hard you tried. Make no mistake, the thousands of small businesses and the workers in steel, autos, and housing who have suffered so badly from the recession didn't lose their jobs by chance. Years of confidenceor excuse me, I should say, well-intentioned but strongheaded policies plundered their earnings and crippled their ability to produce and compete. By 1981 double-digit inflation and excessive regulations had driven up the price of their products. Record interest rates made it too difficult for their firms to borrow money to modernize their equipment, and record tax increases sharply increased the price of their labor in the marketplace. It's taken us 2 years to reverse that damage, get productivity growing again, and foster a recovery that's starting to bring people back to work. We've done it by reducing inflation from 12.4 percent to only four-tenths of 1 percent for the last 6 months, by chopping in half that towering prime interest rate, and by passing the first comprehensive tax rate reduction for all Americans who earn and save since the Kennedy tax cuts in the 1960's. On July 1st, you'll receive the final installment of your 25-percent personal income tax rate reduction. It's not as much as we wanted, but it's the most we could get given the tremendous opposition to any tax reduction by the spending lobbies in Washington. Here's what it means to you: A median-income family of four, which earned $26,000 in 1981 and has kept pace with inflation, will owe about $700 less in Federal income taxes in 1983 than if our tax program had not been passed. In fact, because of our tax cuts, that family can earn $3,000 more in 1983 than it did it in 1981 and it will still owe less in Federal income taxes. That's progress and that's what we mean by incentives. If you work or save more tomorrow than you did today, your reward will be greater than it was. More of every dollar of your added earnings and interest will be yours to keep. Then, in 1985, our program will index your tax rates so you won't be shoved into higher tax brackets when you receive cost-of-living raises. This will be a protection we never had before. Many other features of our tax program were designed to help your families. For working wives and mothers, we've reduced the marriage penalty and increased the child care credit. For family farms and family-owned businesses, we've dramatically reduced the estate tax. For small savers, we've deregulated financial institutions to give you a higher rate of return than you received before. For all of you trying to put money aside for later years, we have introduced strong new incentives for individual retirement accounts, extended IRA's to participants in employer-sponsored pension programs, and doubled maximum Keogh contributions. Further tax breaks for savers will be coming up in 1985, when 15 percent of interest income, up to $450 for single taxpayers and $900 for married couples, can be excluded from taxes. Taken together, this is the most sweeping program of incentives ever passed to help American families and give them real hope for their future. But just as our program is beginning to mesh and deliver what we promised, with personal savings and spending up, productivity up, auto and steel production and housing construction all recovering, workers being called back, the stock market hitting an all-time high, and consumer confidence surgingjust as the recovery is gaining strengtha plan is afoot that would wreck the progress we've made. For all of you who've worked hard to meet your tax obligations this year, be on guard. The liberal Democrats in the House of Representatives want you to pay more-much more. They want to increase taxes on median-income families by $3,550 over the next 5 years. Nothing could be more unfair. And I promise you this: I will veto any attempt to take away the third year of your tax cut or the indexing which benefit low and medium-income families the most. But a recent special report put out by the Democratic study group makes plain they are considering many other options to raise your taxes. You should know that these options include capping mortgage interest deductions, eliminating deductions for State and local taxesin other words, you'd pay a tax on a taxlimiting charitable contributions for nonitemizers, taxing part of the capital gains on home sales, taxing fringe benefits, and on and on and on. The liberal Democratic tax policy seems to boil down to this: America makes, Government takes. The fallacy of this approach was well understood by a visionary Democrat, President John F. Kennedy, who said in 1963, "The largest single barrier to full employment and to a higher rate of economic growth is the heavy drag of Federal income taxes on private purchasing power, initiative, and incentive." His words are just as true today. We will not reverse our progress in reducing tax rates. We have only begun. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday, April 15th, was tax day, and I know many of you are still recovering. So, I hate to mention taxes again, but there's something I think you should know. It's about misrepresentations surrounding the withholding tax on interest and dividends. People are being badly misled, and that misinformation shouldn't go unanswered. Americans have been arguing over taxes ever since the Boston Tea Party more than 200 years ago, when an angry band of taxpayers dumped a shipload of tea into Boston Harbor. Well, in the spirit of the Boston Tea Party, I'd like to dump all the misinformation you've been getting on withholding taxes. In fact, I'd almost like to dump overboard some of those who've been spreading this misinformation and scaring people, especially our older citizens, many of whom have written me very frightened. As you may recall, this whole business started last summer when the Congress passed, and I signed, the law requiring banks and other financial institutions to withhold 10 percent on interest and dividend income. This withholding, which starts this coming July, is not a new tax. I came to Washington to reduce taxes. And I can tell you, I wouldn't have signed the withholding law if it had been a new tax on our people. It's simply a more effective way of collecting tax money that's already owed, just as employers have been withholding taxes from our paychecks for almost 40 years, a procedure most wage earners accept as both fair and necessary. What it really gets down to is this: Even in a law-abiding country like ours, there's still a minority of people out there who cheat on their taxes. Last year, Uncle Sam lost billions of dollars in taxes on unreported interest and dividend income. President Kennedy, back in 1961, said, "This is patently unfair to those who must, as a result, bear a larger share of the tax burden." Well, that was true then, and it's true now. I agree with what one editorial writer said about those who cheat. "When they don't pay their taxes, someone else doesyou and me." Withholding 10 percent on interest and dividends will allow the Internal Revenue Service to recover an estimated $18 billion in otherwise lost revenues over the next 5 yearsand that's without taxing honest taxpayers a penny more than they now pay. Past experience has proven that withholding is by far the most effective means of combating those who don't pay their tax bill to the government. The only people who stand to lose under this law are those who haven't been paying their taxes in the first place, and what's wrong with that? While I'm at it, let me expose a few of the myths which may be bothering some of you. First off, withholding will not place burdens on our older Americans or lowerincome individuals. The vast majority of older Americans85 percentare exempted under the law. And to get that exemption, all they have to do is fill out a form no more complicated than a deposit slip. As for low-income individuals, anyone who paid $600 or less in taxes last year, or married couples who paid under $1,000, are exempt as well. In addition, everyone with small savings accounts with interest payments of $150 or less are also exempt. So, for example, most kids' accounts wouldn't have withholding. All of this raises an obvious question. If withholding is nothing more than a more effective collection method, what's all the controversy about? Well, some of the banking interests seem to think withholding will inconvenience them. But we've taken measures to make sure this changeover isn't burdensome. And as for savers, it will actually be a real convenience for many of them. For example, withholding will free many taxpayers from the chore of preparing quarterly tax payments. It will prevent other citizens from being faced with a substantial accumulated tax bill on April 15th. Most wage earners already prefer to have tax withheld from their paychecks, rather than having to come up with the whole bundle on that annual day of reckoning. Some of the banks and savings and loans have said withholding will reduce the incentive to save. Well, that just doesn't make sense. Withholding will have a minimal effect on accrued interest. For example, the annual loss on a $1,000 account, earning 9-percent interest, would be less than 50 cents. And such an account would be exempt anyway. But I think most Americans would forgo the 50 cents if it meant others who are cheating on billions of dollars of unpaid taxes would have to pay their fair share. The fact of the matter is that those already paying their taxes can get back all of the amount withheld by reducing their estimated tax payments or by adjusting the number of exemptions on their wage withholding. Thanks to the pressure from a very busy lobby, however, the Congress is now considering repeal of withholding before it's even gone into effect. This would help no one who's doing their fair share, but it would let all those who are not paying their taxes on interest and dividends off the hook. So, I'm not about to let it happen. Rather than asking those who are paying taxes to pay more, I say that those who already owe taxes should pay them. And I'm carrying my veto pen right behind my ear. If the repeal passes the Congress, I'm all set to veto it, just as I am prepared to protect the July tax cut and indexing with a veto if necessary. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a few hours I'll undertake one of the saddest journeys of my Presidency. I'll be going to Andrews Air Force Base to meet one of our Air Force planes bringing home 16 Americans who died this week in the terrorist attack on the United States Embassy in Beirut. I undertake this task in great sadness, but also with a tremendous sense of pride in those who sacrificed their lives in our country's efforts to bring peace to the Middle East and spare others the agony of war. Greater love hath no man. The courage and the dedication of these men and women reflect the best tradition of our Foreign Service, our Armed Forces, and the other departments and agencies whose personnel serve our nation overseas, often in situations of great personal danger. We don't know yet who bears responsibility for this terrible deed. What we do know is that the terrorists who planned and carried out this cynical and cowardly attack have failed in their purpose. They mistakenly believe that if they're cruel enough and violent enough, they will weaken American resolve and deter us from our effort to help build a lasting and secure peace in the Middle East. Well, if they think that, they don't know too much about America. As a free people, we've never allowed intimidation to stop us from doing what we know to be right. The best way for us to show our love and respect for our fellow countrymen who died in Beirut this week is to carry on with their task, to press harder than ever with our peacemaking efforts, and that's exactly what we're doing. More than ever, we're committed to giving the people of Lebanon the chance they deserve to lead normal lives, free from violence and free from the presence of all unwanted foreign forces on their soil. And we remain committed to the Lebanese Government's recovery of full sovereignty throughout all its territory. When I spoke after the bombing to Lebanon's President Gemayel, he expressed his people's deepest regret and revulsion over this wanton act of terrorism. I in turn assured him that the tragic events of this week had only served to strengthen America's steadfastness as a force for peace in his country and the Middle East. To this end, I've asked Secretary of State George Shultz to leave tomorrow night for the Middle East. Secretary Shultz will now add his personal efforts to continue the magnificent work begun by Ambassadors Phil Habib and Morris Draper, bringing about the earliest possible withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon in a way that will promote peace and security in this troubled region. The scenes of senseless tragedy in Beirut this week will remain etched in our memories forever. But along with the tragedy, there were inspiring moments of heroism. We will not forget the pictures of Ambassador Dillon and his staff, Lebanese as well as Americans, many of them swathed in bandages, bravely searching the devastated embassy for their colleagues and for other innocent victims. We will not forget the image of young marines gently draping our nation's flag over the broken body of one of their fallen comrades. We will not forget their courage and compassion, and we will not forget their willingness to sacrifice even their lives for the service of their country and the cause of peace. Yes, we Americans can be proud of these fine men and women. And we can be even prouder that our country has been playing such a unique and indispensable role in the Middle East, a role no other single nation could play. When the countries of the region want help in bringing peace, we're the ones they've turned to. That's because they trust us, because they know that America is both strong and just, both decent and dedicated. Even in the shadow of this terrible tragedy in Beirut, that is something to remember and draw heart from. It is also something to be true to. I know I speak for all Americans when I reaffirm our unshakeable commitment to our country's most precious heritageserving the cause of peace and freedom in the world. What better monument than that could we build for those who gave their all that others might live in peace. Until next week, thank you, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk with you today about a subject of paramount concern to every American familythe education of our children. You may have heard the disturbing report this week by the National Commission on Excellence in Education that I created shortly after taking office. Their study reveals that our education system, once the finest in the world, is in a sorry state of disrepair. We're a people who believe that each generation will stand upon the shoulders of the one before it, the accomplishments of each ever greater than the last. Our families immigrated here to make a better life not just for themselves, but for their children and their children's children. Education was not simply another part of American society; it was the key that opened the golden door. Parents who never finished high school scrimp and save so that their children can go to college. Yet today, we're told in a tough report card on our commitment that the educational skills of today's students will not match those of their parents. About 13 percent of our 17-year-olds are functional illiterates and, among minority youth, the rate is closer to 40 percent. More than twothirds of our high schoolers can't write a decent essay. Our grade is a stark and uncompromising "U" for unsatisfactory. We must act now and with energy if we're to avoid failing an entire generation. Let me hasten to point out that America's children are just as smart today as they ever were. But most of them do less than an hour of homework a night. Many have abandoned vocational and college prep courses for general ones. When they graduate from high school, they're prepared for neither work nor higher education. The study indicates the quality of learning in our classrooms has been declining for the last two decadesa fact which won't surprise many parents or the students educated during that period. Those were years when the Federal presence in education grew and grew. Parental control over local schools shrank. Bureaucracy ballooned until accountability seemed lost. Parents were frustrated and didn't know where to turn. Well, government seemed to forget that education begins in the home, where it's a parental right and responsibility. Both our private and our public schools exist to aid your families in the instruction of your children. For too many years, people here in Washington acted like your families' wishes were only getting in the way. We've seen what that "Washington knows best" attitude has wrought. Our high standards of literacy and educational diversity have been slipping. Well-intentioned but misguided policymakers have stamped a uniform mediocrity on the rich variety and excellence that had been our heritage. I think most parents agree it's time to change course. We must move education forward again, with common sense as our guide. We must put the basics back in the schools and the parents back in charge. The National Commission for Excellence in Education recommends requiring 4 years of English in high school and 3 solid years, each, of math and science. It suggests more and longer school days, higher goals, and tougher standards for matriculation. Our teachers should be better trained and better paid. And, we must no longer make excuses for those who are not qualified to teach. Parents, please demand these and other reforms in your local schools and hold your local officials accountable. Let our parents once again be the rudder that puts American education back on course towards success through excellence. There are things the Federal Government can and must do to ensure educational excellence, but bigger budgets are not the answer. Federal spending increased seventeen-fold during the same 20 years that marked such a dramatic decline in quality. We will continue our firm commitment to support the education efforts of State and local governments, but the focus of our agenda is, as it must be, to restore parental choice and influence and to increase competition between schools. We've sent to the Congress a tuition tax credit plan and proposed a voucher system to help low- and middle-income families afford the schools of their choice. We've proposed education savings accounts to help families save for college education. We've sent legislation to the Congress that would create block grants for the training of math and science teachers, and another proposal would encourage those teachers to keep abreast of new developments in their fields. We've also begun an effort to honor some of our finest math and science teachers. For the sake of all our children, our country, and our future, we must join together in a national campaign to restore excellence in American education. At home, in school, in State government, and at the Federal level, we must make sure we have put our children first and that their education is a top priority. "Train up a child in the way he should go," Solomon wrote, "and when he is old he will not depart from it." Well, that's the God-given responsibility of each parent and the trust of every child. It is a compact between generations we must be sure to keep. I would like to close with a special challenge to America's students who may think I just want to pile on more homework. Your generation is coming of age in one of the most challenging and exciting times in our history. High technology is revolutionizing our industries, renewing our economy, and promising new hope and opportunity in the years ahead. But you must earn the rewards of the future with plain hard work. The harder you work today, the greater your rewards will be tomorrow. Make sure you get the training and the skills you need to take advantage of the new opportunities ahead. Get a good education; that's the key to success. It will open your mind and give wings to your spirit. There's a dazzling new world waiting for you. My generation only discovered it. But you, by summoning all the faith, effort, and discipline you can muster can claim it for America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This is a very special weekend in American life, a time specially set aside to honor our mothers and the mothers of our children. As we do, we acknowledge their role as the heart of our families and reinforce our families as the cornerstone of our society. In our families, and often from our mothers, we first learn about values and eating and the difference between right and wrong. Those of us blessed with loving families draw our confidence from them and the strength we need to face the world. We also first learn at home, and, again, often from our mothers, about the God who will guide us through life. The mothers we honor this weekend, young or not so young, partners or alone, well-to-do or sometimes agonizingly poor, are as diverse as our varied population. But they share a commitment to future generations and a yearning to improve the world their children will inherit. They shape the America we know today and are now molding the character of our country tomorrow. Since men seem to have written most of our history books, the role of women and mothers in our communities and families has not always been given its due. But the truth is the wild west could never have been tamed, the vast prairies never plowed, nor God and learning brought to the corners of our continent without the strength, bravery, and influence of our grandmothers, great-grandmothers, and the women who came before them. Living through blizzards, plagues, prairie fires, and floods, these women made homes and started families, organized churches, and built schools. They served as teachers, field hands, physicians, and the center of the family. I was reading a book recently about Kansas frontier women and came across a passage that seemed to sum it all up. Esther Clark wrote, "Mother has always been the gamest one of us. I can remember her hanging onto the reins of a runaway mule team, her black hair tumbling out of its pins and over her shoulders, her face set and white while one small girl clung with chattering teeth to the sides of the rocking wagon and a baby sister bounced about on the floor in paralyzed wonder. "I remember, too, the things the men said about Leny's nerve. But I think as much courage as it took to hang onto the reins that day, it took more to live 24 hours at a time, month in and out on the lonely and lovely prairie without giving up to the loneliness." Of course, Leny's nerve and strength are echoed in modern-day women and mothers who face different but equally trying tests of their courage. There are mothers like Rachel Ressow of Connecticut, for example, and Dorothy DeBolt of California, who with their husbands have adopted between them 25 handicapped boys and girls in addition to their own children. I had a chance to visit with Rachel and her family last month, and I can tell you I've never seen a happier group. I know the strains on them must be great, emotionally and financially, but not as great as the love they feel for each other. Of course, many millions of American mothers are quiet, everyday heroes struggling to stretch budgets and too often maintaining their families alone. Many also contribute to society through full-time careers, and others are forced to work just to make ends meet. They're raising children in a fast-paced world where basic values are constantly questioned. Their monumental challenge is to bring their children into adulthood, healthy and whole, nurturing their physical and emotional growth while avoiding the pitfalls of drug abuse and crime. The lives of American mothers today are far removed from the prairies, and yet they have a nobility about them, too. Government should help, not hinder parents in this task. And that's why our policies have been designed to restore the family to its rightful place in our society, combat the inflation that stole from family budgets, expand opportunity through a renewed economy and hasten the return of values and principles that made America both great and good. On the economic front, I think we've made some solid progress in bringing relief to your financially strapped families. When we took office, inflation was at 12.4 percent, but it's only been one-half of i percent for the last 6 months. You can see a difference on the grocery shelves. A loaf of bread, for example, costs only 2 cents more now than it did in 1980. If we'd continued with the old rate of inflation, by now it would have cost 11 cents more. Milk is about 16 cents cheaper than it would have been, hamburger about 18 cents cheaper per pound, and the savings on a dozen eggs is as much as 50 cents. I don't have to tell the people who do the shopping how these savings add up. But for those of you who don't, we estimate that a family of four on a fixed income of $20,000 has $1,700 more in purchasing power this year than they would have had under the old inflation rate. The progress we're making with the economy, just like the national renewal we're seeing spring up all around us, is the product of our reliance again on good old-fashioned common sense, renewed belief in ourselves, and faith in God. Now and then I find guidance and direction in the worn brown Bible I used to take the oath of office. It's been the Reagan family Bible and, like many of yours, has its flyleaf filled with important events, its margins are scrawled with insights and passages underlined for emphasis. My mother, Nelle, made all those marks in that book. She used it to instruct her two young sons, and I look to it still. A passage in Proverbs describes the ideal woman, saying: "Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she smiles at the future. She opens her mouth in wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. Give her the product of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates." Well, that passage calls for us to recognize the enormous strengths and contributions of women, wives, and mothers and indicates to me that society always needs a little reminding. Well, let us use this weekend as a symbol that we will always remember, reward, and recognize them and use their examples of love and courage as inspiration to be better than we are. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This is the last day of Small Business Week, so I'd like to mark the occasion by speaking about the importance of entrepreneurs and how we're trying to help them. When you think about it, every week should be Small Business Week, because America is small business. Small firms account for nearly half our jobs; they create some 60 percent of new jobs; and they're on the cutting edge of innovation, providing products and ideas for the future. Everything from ballpoint pens to FM-radios, automatic transmissions and helicopters was conceived in the minds of entrepreneurs-men and women who had the spirit to dream impossible dreams, take great risks, and work long hours to make their dreams come true. In his book, "Wealth And Poverty," George Gilder wrote, "... most successful entrepreneurs contribute far more to society than they ever recover. And most of them win no riches at all. They are the heroes of economic life. And those who begrudge them their rewards demonstrate a failure to understand their role and their promise." Well, he's right. Too often, entrepreneurs are forgotten heroes. We rarely hear about them. But look into the heart of America, and you'll see them. They're the owners of that store down the street, the faithfuls who support our churches, schools, and communities, the brave people everywhere who produce our goods, feed a hungry world, and keep our homes and families warm while they invest in the future to build a better America. That word "invest" helps explain why entrepreneurs are a special breed. When small business people invest their money, they have no guarantee of a profit. They're motivated by self-interest. But that alone won't do the trick. Success comes when they can anticipate and deliver what you, the consumer, wants, and do it in a way that satisfies you. As Gilder points out, entrepreneurs intuitively understand one of the world's best kept secrets: Capitalism begins with giving. And capitalism works best and creates the greatest wealth and human progress for all when it follows the teachings of scripture: Give and you will be given unto . . . search and you will find . . . east your bread upon the waters and it will return to you manyfold. In the Parable of the Talents, the man who invests and multiplies his money is praised. But the rich who horde their wealth are rebuked in scripture. True wealth is not measured in things like money or oil, but in the treasures of the mind and spirit. Oil was worthless until entrepreneurs with ideas and the freedom and faith to take risks managed to locate it, extract it, and put it to work for humanity. We can find more oil and we can develop abundant supplies of new forms of energy if we encourage risktaking by thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs, not rely on government to horde, ration, and control. The whole idea is to trust the people. Countries that don't, like the U.S.S.R. and Cuba, will never prosper. Entrepreneurs have always been leaders in America. They led the rebellion against excessive taxation and regulation. They and their offspring pushed back the frontier, transforming the wilderness into a land of plenty. Their knowledge and contributions have sustained us in wartime, brought us out of recessions, carried our astronauts to the Moon, and led American industry to new frontiers of high technology. We came to Washington confident that this small business spirit could make America well and get our economy moving again. Well, it's working. And we want to keep on using that special principle of giving by putting America's destiny back into the people's hands, providing you new incentives to save, invest, and take risks, so more wealth will be created at every level of our society. We know small business is ready. That group fared better during the recent recession, laid off less workers than big business, and will recover faster. Over the last 2 years, you heard about the high rate of small business failures. You heard about it over and over again. What you didn't hear very often was that in 1981 a record 580,000 new businesses were formed. And 560,000 new enterprises were begun in 1982. They're the seeds of lasting recovery. I think America's witnessing a renaissance in enterprise, and it's being nurtured by victories we've wonfor example, reducing the regulatory burden; knocking down the rate of inflation by more than two-thirds; cutting more than in half the record 21 1/2-percent prime interest rate we inherited; passing a Small Business Innovation Development Act to direct millions of dollars in research funds to high-tech firms; passing the Prompt Payments Act to assure that small businesses dealing with the Federal Government get paid promptly; and, most important, providing solid incentives for new investment and risk-taking by cutting personal tax rates, shortening depreciating schedules, and sharply reducing estate taxes on family-owned businesses and farms. At least 85 percent of the 13 million small firms in America pay their taxes by personal rates, not by corporate rates. These firms will provide most of the new jobs to bring down unemployment. Any action that tampers with the third year of the tax cut or the indexing provision, which protects you from being pushed by inflation into higher tax brackets, would harm small business and send unemployment up, not down. That's why I must and I will veto any attack on the tax incentives. They belong to you, the people. They're not the government's to take away. If the Congress wants to help us spur small business growth and jobs in depressed regions, it should pass our enterprise zones proposal. This could provide genuine opportunity for those in need. So, we hope there'll be no further delay. Governments don't reduce deficits by raising taxes on the people. Governments reduce deficits by controlling spending and stimulating new wealth, wealth from investments of brave people with hope for the future, trust in their fellow man, and faith in God. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Each year we set aside a special day to pay special tribute to our men and women in uniform. Today is Armed Forces Day and, on behalf of a grateful nation, I would like to offer them our thanks and appreciation. Their job is unusually difficult not only because it involves hardship and danger, or because it requires long periods away from families and loved ones, or even because it may demand the giving of one's life in defense of our nation. The difficulty of the military profession grows out of all of these, plus the fact that our service men and women are always faced with several of the most fundamental questions we ask as individuals and as a nationthe questions of war and peace and the use of force in the world. Americans have asked these questions again and again for more than 200 years. They're still debating them today. Perhaps the reason these questions persist is because there are no easy answers. The answers lie in seeming paradoxes, underlying truths that may appear contradictory on the surface. The most fundamental paradox is that if we're never to use force, we must be prepared to use it and to use it successfully. We Americans don't want war and we don't start fights. We don't maintain a strong military force to conquer or coerce others. The purpose of our military is simple and straightforward: We want to prevent war by deterring others from the aggression that causes war. If our efforts are successful, we will have peace and never be forced into battle. There will never be a need to fire a single shot. That's the paradox of deterrence. The men and women in our Armed Forces also live with a second paradox. They spend their entire time in service training to fight and preparing for a war which we and they pray will never come. As individuals, these men and women want peace as much as we do as a nation. In fact, they want it even more, because they understand that war is not the romantic heroism we read about in novels or see in the movies, but the stark truth of suffering and sacrifice and the slain promise of youth. Our service men and women know firsthand the horrors of war and the blessings of peace, but they also know that just wanting peace is not enough to guarantee that peace will be sustained. As George Washington said, "To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual ways of preserving peace." Today, Americans are again asking important questions about war and peace. Many have been debating two very important questions: How could we prevent nuclear war, and how could we reduce American and Soviet nuclear arsenals? The answers to these questions are not found in simple slogans, but again, in paradoxes. To prevent nuclear war, we must have the capability to deter nuclear war. This means we must keep our strategic forces strong enough to balance those of the Soviet Union. It must be absolutely clear to the Soviets that they would have no conceivable advantage in threatening or starting a nuclear war. In seeking to reduce American and Soviet nuclear arsenals, we must convince the Soviet Union that it is in our mutual interest to agree to significant, mutual arms reductions. And to do that, we cannot allow the current nuclear imbalance to continue. We must show the Soviets that we're determined to spend what it takes to deter war. Once they understand that, we have a real chance of successfully reaching arms reduction agreements. Last month I sent to the Congress a proposal to modernize our intercontinental ballistic missile force. By building the MX Peacekeeper and small, single warhead missiles, we will not only preserve our ability to protect the peace, we will also demonstrate that any Soviet quest for nuclear superiority will not work, that it is in everyone's interest to end the arms race and to agree to mutual arms reductions. There's a direct relationship between modernization programs, like the MX Peacekeeper, and the twin objectives of deterrence and arms control. The MX and other modernization measures will help us to achieve our fundamental goal, and that is to strengthen the peace by seeking arms reduction agreements that make for more security and stability by reducing overall force levels while permitting the modernization of our forces needed for a credible deterrent. I know that the paradox of peace through a credible military posture may be difficult for some people to accept. Some even argue that if we really wanted to reduce nuclear weapons we should simply stop building them ourselves. That argument makes about as much sense as saying that the way to prevent fires is to close down the fire department. It ignores one of the most basic lessons of history, a lesson that was learned by bitter experience and passed down to us by previous generations. Tyrants are tempted by weakness, and peace and freedom can only be preserved by strength. So, let us resolve today, as we honor the brave men and women who serve in our Armed Forces, to give them the support they need to protect our cherished liberties and preserve the peace for ourselves and our children. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Over this Memorial Day weekend, while most of us turn our thoughts to picnics and family outings, an annual summit meeting is taking place in Williamsburg, Virginia, one that's important to our future. It takes place at an appropriate time. A bipartisan majority in the Congress has just demonstrated its support for the recommendations of the Scowcroft commission to modernize our strategic forces and carry us forward on the road to genuine arms reduction. This is a reassuring signal to our friends and allies meeting in Williamsburg. Here in this old colonial capital, the cradle of so much early American history, the leaders of the major free industrial nations are meeting to discuss the problems, the challenges, and the opportunities that our countries and our peoples share. Since the last summit in France a year ago, we've made important progress. Today, America is leading the world into an economic recovery that's already being felt in many of the other countries represented here. Another encouraging development is that more so than any other time in the recent past, the economic policies of the individual summit countries are converging around low inflation and improved incentives for investment, a good sign for a sustained worldwide recovery. We still have our differences. Friends always will. But they're fewer and less critical today than in a long time. I think most of us are agreed on not only where things stand today but what we must do in the weeks and months ahead. All of us seek the same goala healthy, sustained economic recovery that will revive troubled economies in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world. That means more and better jobs. And the way to achieve this is to ensure that the new recovery does not rekindle inflation. We're doing this. And we're seeking trade between our countries that is open and free of protectionist restraints, so that both industrial and developing nations can profit from an expanding, rather than a contracting market. We're also encouraging responsible domestic economic policies in all of our countries which will make for greater productivity and more stable exchange rates. Here at home, our economy is already strongly on the mend. The rising tide of recovery is also beginning to reach to many of our friends and allies. But to keep it going, and to extend its benefits to others still in the grip of the worldwide recession, we must all stick to anti-inflationary, high productivity policies that adapt new technology, retrain workers, and increase efficiency. The worst thing that could happen now, and one that could stall or at least slow the recovery that's currently underway, would be a political resort to "quick fixes" that could trigger a new round of worldwide inflation and rising interest rates. Now, I know that all of this sounds like economic shoptalka little remote, perhaps, from the everyday concerns of the average American. But while this is an economic summit, the topics it is considering have an impact on almost every phase of our livesjobs, low inflation, and the opportunity for a better future for ourselves and our families. For when you get right down to it, freedom is at the base of the enormous productivity of the industrial West, a freedom that has spawned more progress, more individual rights, and more security and opportunity than are enjoyed by any other people living under any other system. And it's our shared belief in freedom that is the strongest bond uniting each of the seven nations meeting here in Williamsburg this weekend. Each of our nations recognizes the rights and dignity of its citizens. We all believe, in the words of our Founding Fathers, "that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights." That's a simple enough phrase, but it represents an incredible leap forward from the tyranny and injustice that still haunts too many other parts of the globe. And because we, the nations meeting at the summit, are united in our love of personal and economic freedom, our common commitment to maintain peace and defend liberty is that much stronger. There's been a lot of speculation about what will come out of this weekend's summit. I'll leave the detailed analysis to the Monday morning quarterbacks, though for this one they'll have to wait till Tuesday morning. But I'm confident that we and our friends and allies will leave this meeting more, not less, united, that we'll leave it with fewer, not more, differences, and that while it would have been a good session, much will remain to be done. For the issues we address here in this beautiful and historic setting in the spring of 1983 will still be with us for many years to come. The Williamsburg summit is not the end of our work, but it marks the beginning of a new, more stable period of the free developed world learning to work together, devising long-term strategies to meet the problems we face, and handing over a better world to the successor generation, the young people born in the postwar era who must carry and protect the torch of freedom as America approaches the 21st century. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Normally I discuss only one topic on these weekly broadcasts, but this week will be an exception. I want to speak to you about the economic summit we just concluded at Williamsburg, Virginia. Before I do, however, I must draw your attention to a very serious situation facing thousands of our fellow citizens and an institution we love and need very muchthe American Red Cross. As you know, 10 months of bad weather have ravaged many sections of the country. Tornadoes, floods in the South, savage storms along the Pacific coast, an earthquake in California, and now, mudslides in Nevada and Utah have inflicted terrible destruction on lives and property. The Red Cross is doing everything it can to help, as it always does. But its budget has been exhausted by its huge relief operations during this relentless spell of bad weather. The Red Cross has no additional disaster funds to meet these new catastrophes. There will be other disasters, no doubt. And the Red Cross must be ready for them. All of us would want to be able to count on this vital, charitable institution if and when our families ever need help. So, let's make sure the Red Cross has what it needs to continue giving assistance to other disaster victims. We can do that through our own personal contributions. The Red Cross has launched an appeal to replenish its disaster funds. I urge you and your family: please help and give today through you local Red Cross chapter. Now, a few words about our deliberations at the economic summit at Williamsburg. I was very pleased that the leaders of the great democracies could meet in that beautiful colonial city so rich in history and culture. It was a perfect place to renew ties and pledge our best efforts to achieve stronger prosperity and security by living up to those cherished values that bind us-democracy, individual freedom, moral purpose, human dignity, and personal development. Perhaps you're thinking, "That sounds fine. But how does it affect me?" Well, Williamsburg was meaningful and constructive in several ways. The leaders of the seven free industrialized nations met in a private, informal settingone that encouraged some of the best talks among the allies in recent years. We were determined, as sincere and well-intentioned individuals, to talk through our problems, to rise above bickering and discord so, together, we could forge a common strategy for growth and jobs to ensure the better future our people deserve. I think we succeeded. Our meetings produced a shared spirit of confidence, optimism, and cooperationconfidence that an economic recovery is beginning, optimism that it can spread to all countries and that it will last, if our countries cooperate to keep inflation down, reduce interest rates further, and put a stop to protectionism. Williamsburg also demonstrated, to the chagrin of the Soviets, that the spirit of unity in the West for peace through strength is alive and well. Every Western leader who attended agreed that we must resist Soviet efforts to drive a wedge between us. And we all committed ourselves to maintain our security while seeking real arms reductions and working for the cause of peace. The Williamsburg summit was a positive gain that sent a message of hope to the world. That makes it all the more important for each country to follow up with sound, commonsense policies that carry us forward toward greater progress. This coming week I'll meet with the bipartisan leadership of the Congress to discuss concrete ways we can follow up on the summit. Here at home, we must not jeopardize what we've worked so hard to builda strong recovery from a terrible recession caused by years of economic mismanagement. In 2 1/2 years, inflation has been knocked all the way down from an annual rate of 12.4 percent to 3.9 percent and, for the last 6 months, only eight-tenths of 1 percent. The prime interest rate has been cut more than in half from a killing 21  percent to 10 1/2 percent today. Industries like autos, housing, and steel, which had been brought to their knees by those terrible inflation and interest rates, are now regaining strength and calling back workers. Since we took office, thanks to the incentives provided by tax cuts, among other things, more than 1.1 million new businesses have started up. That's an American record. These are the seeds for millions of new jobs and new technologies for the future. Yes, unemployment is too high. But it fell slightly again in May, and it will fall further. Nearly 800,000 jobs have been created since December. Last month there were 375,000 more people on the payrolls than the month before. So, let me repeat: We must keep going forward and not undo the progress we've made. I sincerely hope the Congress will work with us. But let there be no misunderstanding about my position. Hard-working families are already overtaxed; and you know I'm not just whistling in the dark. The United States did not succumb to a decade of difficulties because you, the people, are not taxed enough. We got ourselves in difficulty because government spends too much. We don't need tax increases; we need spending restraint. And that's why the Williamsburg communiqu makes an explicit call, one I'm prepared to defend with Presidential vetoes. We will tackle budget deficits, and we must do it by limiting the growth of government expenditures. In the spirit of the summit, I will also continue to oppose quick fixes of protectionismlegislation like the local content rule, which would force domestic manufacturers of cars to build them with a rising share of U.S. labor and parts. Well, it's a cruel hoax. New cars would be more expensive, more jobs would be destroyed than protected. We would buy less from our trading partners, they would buy less from us, and the world economic pie would shrink. Recrimination and retaliation would increase. We left Williamsburg confident that we can build lasting prosperity, but only with hard work, discipline, incentives, cooperation, and competition. And we can build a safer, more peaceful world, but only if our free nations stand together and remain strong. It's not easy, but nothing worth having ever is. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I think it's time to clear the air and straighten out the record on where my administration stands on environmental and natural resources management matters. I know you've heard and read a million words about where others think we stand. Now, how about 5 minutes of the truth? A few weeks ago, when Bill Ruckelshaus was sworn in as Director of the Environmental Protection Agency, he very graciously pointed out that when his Agency was created 13 years ago, with him as its first Director, California was the environmental leader of the Nation. Having been Governor of California at that time, I was, and am, very grateful to Bill for those kind words. Let me just say, I feel now as I felt then about environmental matters. I believe in a sound, strong environmental policy that protects the health of our people and a wise stewardship of our nation's natural resources. But that's enough about me. The Secretary of Interior, Jim Watt, is the prime target for those who claim that this / Administration is out to level the forests and cover the country with blacktops. Someone in the press the other day said if Jim discovered a cure for cancer, there are those who would attack him for being pro-life. Let's go back a little first and set the stage. Jim rides herd on all the national parks and most of the 80 million acres of national wilderness. There are other things, like wildlife refuges, which up the total considerably. In fact, the Federal Government owns one-third of all the land of the United States. When he came to Washington 21/2 years ago, Jim found that visitor facilities in our national parks had been allowed to deteriorate to the point that many failed to meet standards for health and safety. It's being corrected. The National Park Service has made a major effort to improve maintenance at the parks that so many Americans love and love to visit. And today, they provide a wider, more beautiful variety of outdoor splendor than you can find anywhere else in the world. Not too long ago, however, a new firestorm was raised about our wilderness lands. The perception was created that Secretary Watt was turning some of these lands loose from wilderness classification and government ownership. I should point out that wilderness lands are areas of such wild beauty that they're totally preserved in their natural state. No roads violate them, and no structures of any kind are allowed, and there are now almost 80 million acres of such land. So, what was the fire-storm all about? Well, hang on, and follow me closely. As a result of legislation passed several years ago, a study was made of some 174 million acres of land to see if any or all of it should be declared wilderness and added to the present 80 million acres. Conditions were imposed in the review procedures to ensure that wilderness standards would be met. If, for example, there were roads on the land, it was ineligible. It was ineligible if there was any dual ownership by other levels of government or if title to mineral rights was held by individuals or governments. Also, with limited exceptions, any package had to contain no less than 5,000 acres to be eligible. The study had been going on under the previous / Administration, and some 150 million of the designated 174 million acres had already been turned down by previous / Administrations as being ineligible for wilderness classification. Now, think hard now. Do you recall hearing one word about this or any attack being made on anyone at the time? I don't. When we arrived, there were still about 25 million acres to be studied. A few months ago, another 800,000 acresthat's a fraction of what the previous / Administration rejected-were disqualified as not meeting wilderness qualifications. Yet, the reaction this time was instantaneous, volcanic in size, and nationwide in effect: "Jim Watt was giving away wilderness land. Our children and grandchildren would be deprived of ever seeing America as it once was." Well, nobody bothered to mention that our / Administration has proposed to the Congress addition of another 57 wilderness areas encompassing 2.7 million acres. That's more than three times as much land as was disqualified. Nor did anyone mention that I've already signed legislation designating sites in Indiana, Missouri, Alabama, and West Virginia as new wilderness areas. The truth is that our National Park System alone has grown to 74 million acres, and almost 7,000 miles of river are included in our National Wild and Scenic River System. We have 413 wildlife refuges totaling some 86.7 million acres. This record is unmatched by any other country in the world. Our environmental programs also are the strongest in the world. Last year, expenditures by business and government to comply with environmental laws and regulations were estimated at over $55 billion, or $245 per man, woman, and child in the United States. We have made a commitment to protect the health of our citizens and to conserve our nation's natural beauty and resources. We have even provided financial and technical support to other nations and international organizations to protect global resources. Thanks to these efforts, our country remains "America the Beautiful." Indeed, it's growing more healthy and more beautiful each year. I hope this helps set the record straight, because it's one we can all be proud of. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As the saying goes, we interrupt this program for a news flash. Some years ago, a favorite movie theme was the crusading reporter. In every such picture, the reporter-hat on the back of his head, clutching the phonewould yell, "Give me the city desk. I've got a story that'll crack this town wide open!" I've read that line a few times myself. Well, I'm not wearing a hat or clutching a phone, but before getting into today's broadcast, I'd like to make an important announcement. The term of the Federal Reserve Board Chairman expires August 5th. I have today asked Chairman Paul Volcker to accept reappointment for another term. He's agreed to do so, and I couldn't be more pleased. Paul Volcker is a man of unquestioned independence, integrity, and ability. He is as dedicated as I am to continuing the fight against inflation. And with him as Chairman of the Fed, I know we'll win that fight. End of news flash. Today marked the launching of the seventh space shuttle flight. This particular shuttle flight is unique in several respects. It's the first space flight of an American womanDr. Sally Ride, another example of the great strides women have made in our country. Women are working as hard and contributing as much as men, and their work is finally receiving the recognition it deserves. I know I speak for all of us when I wish Dr. Ride and her fellow crew members the best of luck in their bold journey. Nancy and I look forward to being on hand to greet them when they land next Friday. This particular shuttle flight also represents another first. Aboard that space shuttle will not only be communications satellites and NASA experiments but also a small colony of ants. This experiment is designed to look at the effect of prolonged weightlessness on the ant colony's social structure. While this particular experiment is interesting, the story behind it is even more fascinating. About 5 years ago, some folks in two high schools in Camden, New Jersey, got together and launched a project for students to send up an experiment in a space shuttle flight. Community leaders and local education officials saw this as a fresh opportunity for students to develop an interest in science and engineering. Now, this may not sound all that original. After all, there are lots of high schools with strong science preparatory programs. But the people backing this project didn't go out hunting for an exceptional high school or exceptional scholars. This project started in two inner-city high schools in Camden, New Jersey. Camden High School is about 85 percent black and 15 percent Hispanic. Woodrow Wilson High School is about 51 percent black and 44 percent Hispanic. Many of the students are from poor families. Before this project, interest in science was not very strong. One Camden High student said, "When it came to taking science, a lot of students didn't want to do it. They didn't want to try." But that good old American volunteer spirit found a way. RCA, Camden's largest private employer, offered to pay the cost of launching an experiment on the shuttle if the students could come up with an idea for a project and actually design and build it. The administration and faculty at the high schools took up RCA's offer and started space science courses and encouraged student participation. Dozens of local companies, universities, and individuals helped out by contributing money, materials, or manpower. And most importantly, the students themselves studied computers and designed computer programs to help run the experiment. They built the canister in which the experiment would take place. They raised funds for the project by selling tee-shirts. Not only were they interested in the project itself, they developed a broader interest in science and engineering in general. Elective science classes now have many more students than they had before the project. One of the schools installed a planetarium because of the interest in space. Billy Joyce, a 17-year-old student, said, "Before this experiment with the ants, I wasn't really into this science class. But when it got started, I got interested. Just the idea of getting these ants aboard the shuttle and into space made this class something to look forward to. And it got me interested in doing things I've never done before." This whole project illustrates some very important lessons in the area of education. It shows the part local community involvement plays in stimulating intellectual curiosity and educational excellence. Local businesses, school teachers, and administrators and, most importantly, the students themselves developed ideas and turned those ideas into real educational opportunities. These students didn't become fascinated with science because of some Federal bureaucracy in Washington, though NASA played a positive role, but mainly because of interest developed at the grass roots level. Regardless of whether or not this experiment in the space shuttle flight succeeds, these high school students in Camden, New Jersey, have gained a new-found interest in learning and in the wonders of science that will serve them well all their lives. There's a lesson here for all of us who believe that individual effort and initiative count and that we can make America's education system what it should bethe best in the world. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Ever since our Commission on Excellence in Education came forth with its findings, you, the taxpaying citizens of this country, have been treated to a noisy debate about what to do. First, the Commission report made the point that on the average, educational quality had deteriorated in recent years. Now, make sure you remember that term "on the average." Admittedly, there are schools, school districts, and even some parts of individual schools that have managed to maintain a high level of quality. Then, the Commission pointed out a number of remedies which, if employed, would bring the average level up to the standard our children are entitled to. Many of the remedies would call for no increase in spending; some, admittedly, would shift funding from less important things to things of greater educational value, and here and there, there might be a need for more money. Basically, however, the Commission's thrust was one of making better use of resources we already have. All of what I've just pointed out was lost, however, in an explosion of voices. There were special interest voices that saw a chance to get more money for their particular cause. There were political voices that saw a campaign horse to ride. And there was demagoguery to help raise the noise level. In making the report public and discussing the matter of education costs, I was accused of being "grotesquely inaccurate and outrageous." This seems to have been prompted by a statement that more was being spent on education than on national defense. I can only explain their hysteria by assuming that they were comparing Federal spending on education to Federal spending on defense. That, of course, is ridiculous. The Federal Government bears overwhelming responsibility for national defense, but it provides less than 10 percent of all education costs, which are and always have been a responsibility of the State and local governments. Since this hassle won't die down in 15 minutes, I thought you might like some real figures from the U.S. Department of Education. In the '82-'83 school year, government at all levels spent $215.3 billion on education. The 1983 defense spending is $214.8 billion. Actually, that $215 billion for education doesn't include Department of Defense spending for remedial education or private corporation spending on employee education, all of which is estimated to be about $30 billion or more. Nor does it include what parents spend on books, etc. One of the noisemakers wants the Federal Government to add $11 billion to Federal education spending. Another demands $14 billion. And most of them accuse us of whacking the budget down to a starvation level. The facts are, the Federal budget for education in 1980 was $14.1 billion. In 1981, which was still not our budget, it was $14.8. Our first appropriation, the one for 1982, held the level for education at $14.8 billion, the same as in 1981. This year we'll spend about $15.3 billion. Now, these are a lot of figures to absorb when you can only hear them and not see them. Let me see if I can simplify things. The cost per pupil has nearly doubled, up 183.2 percent in 10 years. In the same 10 years, the number of pupils has dropped by 14 percent. Some distinguished Members of CongressI'll be kind and not name them-took me on for pointing out that the decline in educational quality seems to have begun shortly after the Federal Government started providing that less than 10 percent of the funding. What I had in mind was that the Federal Government began regulating and kibitzing a lot more than 10 percent, and maybe that contributed to the decline. Now hang on, I have to resort to some numbers again. The Federal funding boom began in 1960. The teacher-pupil ratio went from one teacher to 26 pupils, then to one teacher to 19 pupils in 1980. But the Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of college-bound high school graduates dropped in that same period from 975 to 890. Maybe it's just a coincidence, but at least it raises a question as to whether more money is thewell, dare I use the term?"quick fix" for poor quality education. Already a great many educators and school boards and Governors and State legislators who've read the Commission's report are enthusiastically moving to implement it. The Commission urged that we return to basics as requirements for a high school diploma: 4 years of required English; increase the number of years of required mathematics and science; eliminate some of the frill, the "snap" courses so tempting to students when there are few, if any, compulsory courses; make history a required course, and the same for languages for the college-bound; require more homework. These were a few of the Commission's recommendations. Yes, they talked of something that could translate into more moneybetter pay for better teachers to attract the brightest and the best to choose teaching as a career. Do what is done in every other profession and businessoffer merit pay raises for those who earn and deserve them. The Commission gave us a course to follow. It leads to better education for our sons and daughters. Let's ignore the noisemakers and set sail. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Monday, America will celebrate her 207th birthday. I love the Fourth of July. I enjoy picnics and fireworks and long summer days, and I get excited with the thought that millions of our people all across our great country will, on this Fourth of July weekend, join together in thinking about freedom and the men and women who sacrificed to make it our inheritance. It's easy to forget just what a revolution these Americans made. It's easy to forget how they amazed the world and how many hopes they raised. President George Washington, in the very first Inaugural Address, warned Americans that they had a new responsibility. He said, "... the preservation of the sacred fire of liberty and the destiny of the republican model of government are justly considered, perhaps, as deeply, as finally, staked on the experiment intrusted to the hands of the American people." Now, you may not think of yourself or our democracy as an experiment, but look around. All over the world, millions and millions of people still live under tyranny. Their leaders claim that they're the wave of the future, that history is on their side. And yet, their people look to us for hope. Their people look to America as the cradle of freedom, the place where the great civilized ideas of individual liberty, representative government, and the rule of law under God are realities. Yes, these people see America as the experiment that works. And democracy works because of the physical and moral courage of individualssome famous, others deserving of recognition. I think of a group of women we honored in Washington this past April, an honor long Overdue. They were nurses who'd been captured in the Philippines during World War II and then spent nearly 3 years in prison camps. Lieutenant Colonel Madeline Ullom, who was captured at Corregidor, has described tending wounded soldiers during the long months of siege: "Our atmosphere was one of dusty pall, ever present, in which we moved, worked, tried to eat, tried to breathe in an endless nightmare," she said. In Santa Tomas Prison Camp, Colonel Ullom and her fellow nurses quickly organized into shifts and began to care for other prisoners. They fought against diseases and starvation. They lacked medicine and equipment and food. But miraculously, every one of the 81 American women POW's had survived. These women would not describe themselves as extraordinary Americans; they simply volunteered to serve their country, and they chose to serve it with courage and hope. Their patriotism, as they gathered in Washington 40 years after their capture and imprisonment, remained strong and vibrant. Of course, we're accustomed to thinking of courage during a time of war, but democracy requires political courage as well. In 1954, when he was convalescing from a painful back operation, Senator John F. Kennedy had time to think about political courage. The result was a book entitled "Profiles in Courage," in which he wrote, "In the days ahead, only the very courageous will be able to take the hard and unpopular decisions necessary for our survival in the struggle with a powerful enemy. And only the very courageous will be able to keep alive the spirit of individualism and dissent which gave birth to this nation, nourished it as an infant, and carried it through its severest tests upon the attainment of its maturity." We've seen a great example of this kind of political courage just recently when a majority, made up of both Republicans and Democrats in the Congress, set aside narrow political considerations and embraced a bipartisan program for enhancing America's security and stability through meaningful arms reductions and modernization of our defenses. It was not easy for many of these men and women to vote for the MX missile. Some have been harshly criticized by other Members in their own party. Indeed, they faced considerable pressure and corresponding political risks. While accepting such risks, the only benefit they've received is the knowledge that they placed foremost their hopes for successful arms reductions and greater security of their nation. Together with the Congress, we're doing everything possible to achieve genuine arms reductions. Our negotiators have been given instructions that provide greater flexibility in our negotiations with the Soviet Union. The proposals are fair, realistic, and would bring a much greater degree of stability for all the peoples of the world. There's absolutely no doubt that the prospects for success in our negotiations have been significantly improved because of the political courage shown by the Congress. The task now is to be patient and to sustain our resolve. On this Fourth of July weekend, I salute those Members of the Congress who are putting the interests of America first. They're part of a long American tradition of proving democracy's critics wrongof showing that we have the courage to stand up for what is right and what is necessary. Our democratic experiment is alive and well at year 207. And with the help of the kind of political leadership and vision that we've seen in recent weeks, we can count on many happy returns. Until next week, God bless you, and God bless America.\par
My fellow Americans: In recent weeks, even the gloomiest critics have had trouble denying that things are getting better for you and your families. The number of people working is up 1.1 million from last December. Unemployment remains too high, but it's coming down9.8 percent in June, as announced yesterday. We're seeing strong economic growth, and we're seeing it while inflation is at its lowest level in a decade3 1/2 percent over the last year. This sharply lower inflation and the first decent tax cut since the 1960's are allowing families to keep more of their own earnings to spend or save. Contrary to propaganda blasts you hear, America is heading in a better direction today than before. For example, thanks to the tax cuts and our progress against inflation, a medium-income family earning $25,000 has nearly $600 more in purchasing power today than in 1980. Low-income families are being helped, too. Nothing was more cruel for them than those back-to-back years of double-digit inflationbefore we got here, I hasten to add. If your family was on a fixed income of $10,000 at the start of 1979, that income was worth less than $8,000 by the end of 1980. In other words, inflation, which for years had been part of deliberate government economic planning, robbed you of $2,000. Now, that's not my idea of fairness, and I doubt if it's yours. If you tried to save a dollar at your bank during that same period, it would have lost 20 cents in value. Well, we haven't abolished inflation or high taxes, but we're gaining on them. Your after-tax purchasing power helps determine your economic well-being. But this fact is ignored by the big spenders who claim to carry the banner of fairness and compassion. According to them, the whole issue of fairness revolves around government spending programs. And even on government spending, some of them have been misleading you. You've been led to believe that any budget savings in these programs would hurt the needy, and that's not true. The problem we set out to solve back when we inherited those record inflation and interest rates was not government doing too much for the needy, but government doing too much for the non-needy. Before our budget reforms were passed, surveys indicated that 2 out of every 5 dollars in benefits went to those with total incomes and benefits well above the poverty line. Also, some of the programs to help the poor had the effect of keeping them poor and dependent, robbing them of their self respect. America is a wealthy nation, but our wealth is not unlimited. So, we've tried to face up to the reality too many have ignored. Unless we prune nonessential programs, unless we end benefits for those who should not be subsidized by their fellow taxpayers, we won't have enough resources to meet the requirements of those who must have our help. And helping those who truly need assistance is what fairness in government spending should be all about. We're trying to do this. Let me give you one statistic I doubt you've ever heard. Our budget request for 1984 would have the Federal Government spend, after inflation, two-and-a-half times what it spent in 1970 on assistance to the poor. So while, yes, there have been some cuts, they've been nowhere near as draconian as critics charge. Why haven't you had this information? Well, maybe one reason is the drumbeat of gloom and doom from misery merchants in some of the media. One major newspaper recently ran an editorial entitled, "Poorer, Hungrier." In 1979, according to this editorial, a team of doctors declared Federal food programs had eliminated most of the malnutrition in America. The editorial asked, "What would they find today?" Their answer, of course, was to say that under this administration things had worsened. The truth is low-income Americans are receiving more food assistance in 1983 than ever before in history. During our administration, food assistance has grown by 34 percent. More people are being served and the grants for the neediest have been increased. We subsidize in whole or in part 95 million meals a day. The average food stamp benefit, per person, has grown faster than the increase in food prices through inflation. The infant mortality rate has continued to decline. A greater percentage of school-lunch-program dollars are dedicated to providing meals for children of low-income families. Subsidies for meals served to children from low income families have also increased in this administration. Our administration is also distributing surplus cheese, butter, powdered milk, rice, flour, honey, and cornmeal to the needy and elderly. This is in addition to commodities regularly provided to schools and charitable institutions. The total comes to $1.7 billion so far. Those budget reductions you've heard so much about have been achieved by improving efficiency, reducing dependency, cutting waste and abuse, and targeting on the neediest families. And that's as it should be. We're committed to fairness, and we'll continue to take actions needed to bring it about throughout our society. Next week we'll be taking a new initiative to keep a pledge I made in my State of the Union addressthe pledge to strengthen enforcement of fair housing laws for all Americans. We believe in the bold promise that no person in the United States should be denied full freedom of choice in the selection of housing because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. We're proposing a series of amendments that will put real teeth into the Fair Housing Act. For example, the Justice Department can now act on complaints only when there's reason to believe there exists a practice of discrimination. Under our proposal, if conciliation fails, Secretary Pierce at HUD could forward individual complaints to the Attorney General for litigation. We're also proposing to extend the current law to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap or size of family. And our proposal will create substantial civil penalties for landlords and others found violating the law. This will include stiff fines up to $50,000 for a first offense and $100,000 for a second offense. We believe this is an important step for civil rights. For a family deprived of its freedom of choice in choosing a home, our proposal will mean swift action and strong civil penalties to prevent discrimination in the first place. As I said, we're committed to fairness and we're committed to use the full power of the Federal Government whenever and wherever even one person's constitutional rights are being unjustly denied. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I want to talk to you about peace. Back in June of 1963, President John F. Kennedy delivered an arms control speech that is still remembered for its eloquence and vision. He told the graduating seniors at American University: "I speak of peace, therefore, as the necessary, rational end of rational men. I realize that the pursuit of peace is not as dramatic as the pursuit of war and, frequently, the words of the pursuer fall on deaf ears. But we have no more urgent task." Twenty years have passed since those words were spoken, and they've been a troubled era, overshadowed by the dangers of nuclear weapons. We've seen the world's inventory of nuclear weapons steadily expand. Despite many sincere attempts to control the growth of nuclear arsenals, those arsenals have continued to grow. That's the bad news. The good news is that now, at last, there is hope that we can finally begin to reverse this trend. Americans have joined together-Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservativesto face the greatest challenge of our time: the urgent task of pursuing a lasting peace in the nuclear era. Our political process has forged a consensus, a bipartisan consensus that has united us in our common search for ways to protect our country, reduce the risk of war and, ultimately, dramatically reduce the level of nuclear weaponsthe foundation we need for successful negotiations. Remember, our MX Peacekeeper missile program calls for the deployment of 100 missiles. The level ultimately deployed, however, will clearly be influenced by the outcome in Geneva. If an agreement is reached which calls for deep reductions-which is, of course, our goalthe number of missiles could certainly be adjusted downward. As the Scowcroft commission rightly pointed out, the MX Peacekeeper missile is an essential part of a comprehensive modernization and arms control program to ensure deterrence today and in the future. We're building the MX Peacekeeper to strengthen deterrence. But it also provides vital negotiating incentives and leverage in Geneva. Andrei Sakharov, the distinguished Soviet physicist and Nobel Prize laureate, recently published an eloquent article which forcefully makes the same point. He notes that, given the Soviet advantage in land-based, strategic missiles, talks about limitation and reduction of these systems could become easier if the United States were to have MX missiles, albeit only potentially. Andrei Sakharov is a hard man for anyone to ignore. When the Congress reaffirms its support for this program and authorizes the funds to modernize our strategic deterrent, our agenda for peace will be strengthened even further. In NATO, as in our other alliances, there's a renewed feeling of solidarity. Last May at Williamsburg, the leaders of the major industrialized nations demonstrated their commitment to vigorously pursue the twin objectives of arms reductions and deterrence in the Williamsburg communiqu. This solidarity is a source of much strength. For the graduates of June 1983, this a time of opportunity and hopea hope that they and their children will enjoy a safer, more secure world. That's why we must sustain our consensus. And that's why I've spent hundreds of hours meeting with members of this administration, with the bipartisan commission on strategic forces, with our arms negotiators, with Members of the Congress, and with concerned citizens. My message to them and to you is that I have no higher priority than reducing and ultimately removing the threat of nuclear war and seeking the stability necessary for true peace. To achieve that objective, we must reduce the nuclear arsenals of both the United States and the Soviet Union. We must achieve greater stability; that is, we must be sure that we obtain genuine arms reductions, not merely agreements that permit a growth in nuclear arsenals or agreements that proclaim good intentions without the teeth necessary to verify and enforce compliance. Our current goal must be the reduction of nuclear arsenals. And I for one believe we must never depart from the ultimate goal of banning them from the face of the Earth. That's why we presented ambitious but realistic proposals, and that's why I have been and continue to be willing to consider any serious Soviet counteroffer. And that's why I've made our original proposal more flexible and why I continue to seek new ideas for achieving an arms reduction breakthrough. Indeed, the draft treaty our negotiators recently introduced in Geneva documents our flexibility. As opportunities permit, the U.S. position will continue to evolve. The United States will negotiate patiently but urgently and always in good faith. But we cannot and we must not settle for less than genuine, mutual, and verifiable arms reductions. America's postwar generation has preserved world peace in its lifetime, but it's been an uneasy peace. Today's young Americansindeed, all members of the human familydesire more and deserve more. And you deserve to know that your government is doing everything possible to meet your expectations. Time and again our nation has proved that there are no limits to what we Americans can achieve when we work together. Well, today we are working together to do what is right. And as a result, we can look forward to a more secure tomorrow. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Before I get to the heart of my remarks today, I want to mention some important legislation currently before the Congress. I'm sure you're all aware of the difficulties some countries are having in meeting payments on their debts. Their problem touches all of us in a very real way and, indeed, poses a threat to the stability of the world financial order. For that reason, something called the International Monetary Fund was created some years ago. It's better known as the IMF, and that's how I'll refer to it. Nations, including our own, contribute to IMF, and countries with temporary balance-of-payment problems borrow from it on a short-term basis. In order to get a loan, they have to agree to terms the Fund managers lay down with regard to correcting the practices and policies that contribute to their financial difficulties. I've asked the Congress to approve an $8 1/2 billion contribution to the Fund. Some in the Congress and a great many citizens think this is a giveaway which will increase our deficit. The IMF is not foreign aid, and the $8 1/2 billion is not being given away. We will have additional drawing rights in that amount from the IMF. In fact, in its entire history, the two countries that have borrowed the greatest amounts from the Fund have been the United Kingdom and the United States. The sum we're asking Congress to approve does not increase our budget and is returned with interest as loans are repaid. In addition, it creates jobs, because it keeps the wheels of world commerce turning. Exports account for one out of five manufacturing jobs in the United States. The IMF and its programs help keep Americans at work. This is important legislation for international economic stability, and I hope you'll support it. But today, I want to speak only ofor not speak, I should say, of great national issues. Instead I'm taking to the airwaves in hopes we can save one little 11-month-old girl from Texas and many others like her. The young girl from Texas is Ashley Bailey, and all 11 pounds of her are in critical condition at the University of Minnesota Hospital in Minneapolis. She is now fed intravenously and has but 2 or 3 weeks to live unless she receives a liver transplant. Back in May, Congressman Charlie Stenholm of Texas wrote me of the plight of this baby girl who must receive a transplant to survive. The surgery was estimated to cost $140,000. The Congressman said there'd been a tremendous outpouring of community and business support in the Abilene, Texas, area and about $75,000 already had been raised. A week or so after I received the letter, the Texas and Federal Medicaid programs contributed $82,000 toward the operation and medical expenses were no longer a problem for little Ashley. What she needed then, and needs now, is a donor. Time is running out. I'm issuing a plea to the Nation to find Ashley a donor. Once one is found, an Air Force jet is standing ready in case immediate, commercial transportation is not available. Have a pencil ready; I'll give you a phone number in just a few seconds. Right now, somewhere in America, there might be a pair of stunned and grief-stricken parents whose own baby has died in an accident or is sadly near death. I know if these parents were aware their baby could make it possible for Ashley to live, they would have no hesitation in saying, "Save that little girl." I urge any of you who know of a possible liver donor for Ashley to call The Living Bank in Houston. The number is 800-5282971. I'll repeat the number: 800-5282971. Please call. There are many other children like Ashley. We're looking for donors for them, as well. Right here in the White House we have an electrician, Stuart Thomas, whose daughter Candianother 11-month-old girlis waiting for a transplant. The helicopter squadron at Andrews Air Force Base is alerted to transport Candi and her mother to Pittsburgh as soon as a suitable liver is found. In the last few days we lost little Courtney Davis from Beaumont, Texas, and Michelle Heckard from Shenandoah Heights, Pennsylvania, because we couldn't find livers to save their lives. Nancy and I receive so many requests from families in need of organ donors that I directed the Surgeon General to conduct a conference on organ transplants. The major recommendation was to develop a public awareness program on organ donorship. This is underway, and I hope my broadcast today adds to the momentum. The project will stress education for doctors, State highway police, hospital officials, and others on the need to consider organ donorship when accidental death occurs. America has faced shortage in the past of everything from nylons during World War II to oil in the 1970's. But modern medical science has provided us with a new shortagea shortage of living organs: livers, hearts, lungs, eyes, kidneys. I urge all Americans to fill out donor cards, little cards you carry in your wallet or purse that, in the event of your death, offer the hope of life to others. You can obtain these cards by simply calling your local kidney, heart, or lung associations. Americans are giving people. In many of the eases where these very expensive operations are essential, local citizens have raised money to help the families in need. I've already mentioned the community support given to Ashley. Well, not far from Washington, Morningside, Maryland, raised over $100,000 for the Goode family, whose little Nicky needs a transplant. That kind of caring should make us all proud to be American. We can save more of our children and adults through organ donorship. Organ donors offer the greatest gift of allthe gift of life. Right now Ashley Bailey, as well as other desperately ill children, are waiting for that gift. Please help us find donors for these children. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Saturday, I told you about little Ashley Bailey and her desperate need for a liver transplant. I expressed the hope that someone listening might know of a possible donor who could assure 11-month-old Ashley of a chance to live. I listed several others who, like Ashley, are waiting for transplants if donors can only be found. I gave a phone number where possible donors could respond. Well, God bless you all, the response was overwhelming. Over 5,000 calls were received from people in 47 States. Many callers asked for donor cards so they could help others even after they're gone. Six liver transplants have already taken place. Six children, including Candi Thomas, one of the little girls I mentioned last week, have been given a new lease on life. And two people have received cornea transplants. They were given the gift of sight by one of our neighbors who heard about a chance to help. I'm sorry to say, Ashley's situation remains the same. None of the available livers was suitable. She still needs a transplant soon, in order to live. Time is short. But your response has been so generous, I have to believe there will be a donor found. I'm going to keep on praying. One thing I know: We live in a country where people truly care for one another. Today, I'd like to take you behind the headlines and talk about an issue that affects every U.S. taxpayerefficient management of the Federal Government. Government has grown like a patchwork quilt. Whenever a new need was identified, a new program was patched on regardless of what it cost. The door was wide open for fraud, waste, and abuse. Is it any wonder that we hear so many infuriating stories about government throwing money away, about food stamp rings that illegally obtain aid meant for the poor and needy, or about illegal aliens receiving government loans? Already, we've cut the volume of new Federal regulations by one-quarter, reducing paperwork on the American people by 300 million hours a year. We've reduced the rapid rate of growth in government spending. And the Inspector General program has helped save or put to better use over $22 billion that was being improperly spent. In the Defense Department alone, our efforts have saved or put to better use $16.1 billion. And the Department's 18,000 auditors and investigators have my full backing in their continuing fight against the fraud and waste typified by the recent $916 plastic cap purchase. Would you pay that much for a plastic cap? Well, the Government shouldn't either. And Secretary Weinberger is cracking down, seeing to it that negligent employees will be fired and irresponsible government contractors taken to court. Those horror stories you've been seeing and hearing about scandalous prices that we're paying for spare parts are the result of our own investigations and represent the findings of more than a score of Defense Department Inspector Generals. We've saved $50 million in government-wide travel costs by using airline discount fares. We've also discontinued one out of every five government publications, eliminating 73 million copies of such vital reports as "A Moment in the Life of a Lizard" and "Growing Ornamental Bamboo". And we're ahead of schedule in our efforts to reduce Federal civilian employment by the equivalent of 75,000 full-time workers. This coming week I'll bring my senior appointees together at the White House to continue an ambitious program to upgrade management of the Federal Government. Our long-range goal is to overhaul the entire administrative system. I call this effort Reform 88. It's a big job. Our government has over 2.8 million civilian and 2 million active military personnel in over 22,000 buildings, using 19,000 computers, 330 differing financial systems, and 200 payroll systems, and there's never been an effective effort to manage this growing administrative monster. Each year we've fallen behind the private sector in management techniques. Well, we're bringing this to an end now. Reform 88 is geared to get results. Over a 6-year period, it'll save the taxpayers or result in a better use of tens of billions of dollars that could mean as much as the equivalent of nearly $2,000 for the average American family. And these savings won't be obtained by cutting help to the deserving but by eliminating waste and inefficiency. For example, in debt collection, where the Government is owed over $280 billion, we'll be using modern methods to ensure that Federal loans are paid back. You may have heard about the individual who obtained 10 Housing and Urban Development loans and defaulted on all 10. Well, in the future, deadbeats like that will be headed off at the pass. We'll do it by using credit bureaus and prescreening to determine the credit worthiness of applicants for loans and grants. And to help reduce the $40 billion in delinquent debt, we'll be automating our collection techniques just like private industry. It's about time the notion that government is the servant, not the master, came back into fashion. One of our highest priorities is to restore to the American people a government well managed and responsive to your needs and respectful of your tax dollars. The greatest nation in the world deserves the best government, and with your support, we'll have it. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about trade-a powerful force for progress and peace, as you well know. The winds and waters of commerce carry opportunities that help nations grow and bring citizens of the world closer together. Put simply, increased trade spells more jobs, higher earnings, better products, less inflation, and cooperation over confrontation. The freer the flow of world trade, the stronger the tides for economic progress and peace among nations. I've seen in my lifetime what happens when leaders forget these timeless principles. They seek to protect industries and jobs, but they end up doing the opposite. One economic lesson of the 1930's is protectionism increases international tensions. We bought less from our trading partners, but then they bought less from us. Economic growth dried up. World trade contracted by over 60 percent, and we had the Great Depression. Young Americans soon followed the American flag into World War II. No one wants to relive that nightmare, and we don't have to. The 1980's can be a time when our economies grow together, and more jobs will be created for all. This was the spirit of the Williamsburg summit in May. The leaders of the industrialized countries pledged to continue working for a more open trading system. But sometimes that's easier said than done. Take the case of our own economy. Things are looking up for America. Inflation has been knocked down to 2.6 percent. Economic growth in the second quarter reached 8.7 percent, and 1,700,000 Americans have been hired since last December. Yesterday we learned that total unemployment has dropped to 9.3 percent. Nearly 500,000 of our fellow citizens found jobs in July. More Americans are working than any time in this nation's history. This good news restores confidence in our economy and our currency. Some people dislike our strong dollar and blame it on our interest rates. Well, we do not want disorderly currency markets, and we've intervened to bring back order to otherwise disorderly markets. But let's remember something. Other countries have higher interest rates than we do, yet their currencies have fallen in relation to ours. One good reason is inflation. It's not the interest you earn from holding a currency that matters most; it's the confidence you have that the value of your money won't depreciate from higher inflation. America's inflation rate has declined dramatically. Now a strong dollar makes our purchases from abroad less expensive, and that's good. Winning the war against inflation is probably the best economic legacy we could leave to the next generation. Remember what life was like only a few years ago when the value of the dollar was being talked down and inflation was going through the roof?. But a strong dollar also brings problems. It makes the goods our exporters are trying to sell more expensive. Still, we're tough competitors. Some $200 billion worth of goods were sold by Americans last year. So, do we listen to those who would go back to dead end protectionism and to sabotaging the value of our currency, or do we go forward, keeping our faith in the American people who made this nation the greatest success story the world has ever known? I believe our challenge is to marshal the power of this country's best minds and create the technology that will restore America's economic leadership. I have appointed a Presidential Commission on Industrial Competitiveness, asking distinguished leaders from business, labor, and academia to advise us on how best to strengthen our ability to compete in world markets. We believe the U.S. trade position would be strengthened by uniting many of this government's trade responsibilities under one roof, so we proposed legislation to create a department of international trade and industry. We're also taking action to create opportunities for trade. Ten days ago, our negotiators reached a new, long-term grain agreement with the Soviet Union. Since 1981 we've ended the unfair embargo that had been slapped on American farmers. And now we have an agreement that obligates the Soviets to increase their minimum purchase of wheat-or grain, I should sayby 50 percent. This, along with the likelihood of substantial purchases from China, represents a major step forward for our farmers. It symbolizes our determination to help them regain the markets they lost. It also proves that while we oppose Soviet aggression, we seek to promote progress and peace between our peoples. Yesterday I signed legislation to stimulate more trade and opportunitythe Caribbean Basin Initiative. This package of incentives will establish new commercial relationships between the people of the Caribbean and the United States. Stimulating trade will mean new jobs for their citizens as well as ours. It underscores our belief that economic development based on free market principles is the key to helping our neighbors build a future of freedom, democracy, and peace. Finally, let me mention an important agreement on textiles we've just reached with the People's Republic of China. No free market currently exists in textiles, and only what is called the multi-fiber arrangement, signed by 46 countries. We're a party to that arrangement, but China is not, and our bilateral agreement with them expired last December. To prevent a flood of imports from harming our struggling textile industry, we imposed unilateral quotas on China's products. They responded with large reductions in their purchases of American farm products. We faced three options: option 1, end our restrictions on Chinese textiles, which would help our farmers but risk further damage to our textile workers; option 2, cut back Chinese exports even further, which would cost our farmers billions more in lost sales; or option 3, negotiate a tough but fair 5-year agreement with China to permit controlled, moderate growth of Chinese exports. We chose option 3. Our textile producers can be assured there will be no flood of imports, and they can get on with the task of modernizing their industry, which is the best long-term assurance of jobs for our own people. This new agreement will mean more business for our farmers, and it promises China the opportunity to sell its products here. That's important for good relations between our two countries. Bit by bit, we're restoring America's reputation as a reliable supplier and as a supporter of free and fair trade for progress and for peace. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm speaking to you from El Paso, Texas. Tomorrow, I'll be in Mexico, meeting with President de la Madrid. Earlier this week I met with the new national, bipartisan Commission on Central America. The Commission will look at long-range issues and recommend a truly national approach to them. One thing especially impressed me. The Commission members are all distinguished, well-educated people, but they've made their first task a concentrated study of Central America. Professor Kissinger has promised to make their learning program a tough one. I mention this because the polls say many Americans are confused about what we're supporting in Central America and about why that region, so close to home and to our strategic trading arteries, is important to us. The mail I receive tells the same story. Well, my staff recently put together a composite letter that combines the most widespread misconceptions. It goes like this: "Dear Mr. President: The United States has not learned any lessons from history. We refuse to understand the root causes of violence and revolution. El Salvador proves that we continue to support ruthless dictators who oppose change and abuse human freedom. And by refusing to deal decently with the Sandinista government in Nicaragua, we have forced it into the arms of Cuba and the Soviet Union. Military measures will just make things worse. Anyway, democracy can't work in Central America." End of composite letter. Sound familiar? I'm sure you've heard it all before. But let's look at what is really happening. We have learned from history. Years of poverty and injustice in Central America are a root cause of the violence. That's why our economic assistance there is greater, three times greater than our military aid. We are on the side of peaceful, democratic change in Central America, and our actions prove it daily. But we aren't the only ones interested in Central America. The Soviet Union and Cuba are intervening there, because they believe they can exploit the problems so as to install ruthless Communist dictatorships, such as we see in Cuba. We are not supporting dictators either of the far right or the far left. We're working hard with Costa Rica and Honduras, which are true democracies, and we're helping El Salvador to become one. Only democracy can guarantee that a government will not turn against its own people, because in a democracy, people are the masters of government, not the servants. Now, it's true that some members of El Salvador's security forces still misuse their public trust. You can't instantly erase something that's been going on for a century or more. But we deplore even passive acceptance of such actions, and I can assure you great progress is being made. Can anyone really believe that the situation would improve if our influence for moderation were removed? Commitment to human rights means working at problems, not walking away from them. And there are many brave Central Americans who, at great personal risk, are working to end these abuses. President Magana of El Salvador is such a man. That brings me to Nicaragua. We have dealt decently with Nicaragua, more decently than the Sandinista government there has treated its own citizens and neighbors. The Sandinistas were not elected. They seized power through a revolution that, true enough, overthrew a dictatorship, but then the Sandinistas betrayed their repeated promises of democracy and free elections. They betrayed many who fought beside them in the revolution, and they've set up a Communist dictatorship. Having seized power, the Sandinista bosses revealed they had chosen sides with Cuba and the Soviet Union a long time ago. We did not push them into that camp. Unfortunately, there have been such distortions about U.S. policy in Central America that the great majority of Americans don't know which side we're on. No wonder a great many sincere people write angrily that we should support regional dialog, emphasize economic assistance, or take any number of other actions, all of which we're already doing and have been doing for more than 2 years. Well, it's time to get away from fairy tales and get back to reality. We support the elected Government of El Salvador against Communist-backed guerrillas who would take over the country by force. And we oppose the unelected Government of Nicaragua, which supports those guerrillas with weapons and ammunition. Now, that, of course, puts us in sympathy with those Nicaraguans who are trying to restore the democratic promises made during the revolution, the so-called contras. Our neighbors in the Americas are important to us, and they need our help. We're working hard to provide economic and political support for development so that ballots will replace bullets in that troubled region. That's the reason for the Caribbean Basin Initiative and all our economic assistance. At the same time, we're helping our neighbors create a defensive shield to protect themselves from Communist intervention while they go forward with economic reform. We do this by providing training, assistance, and firm demonstrations of our resolve to deter Communist aggression. And that's the reason for the bipartisan commission, which has now begun its work. If we all look calmly at the facts, we can unite to protect our national interests and give our neighbors the help they need without spooking ourselves in the process. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Before getting into the main subject of today's broadcast, I have what I think is a newsworthy item. Just about a year ago the Security and Loan Association of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, made a sizable summillions of dollars-available for home mortgage loans at an 11.9-percent interest rate. The going rate at the time was about 16 percent. I'm happy to say a number of banks throughout the country followed suit. I'm even happier to say that Milwaukee Security Savings and Loan has done it again. One hundred million dollars has been made available for home mortgages at a 9.9-percent interest rate. The president of the savings and loan says it's their way of trying to help the economic recovery that is now under way. Well, they deserve a big "thank you" from all of us. Last month, on one of these talks, I told you about a few of the things we've been doing to cut down on waste and fraud, unnecessary paperwork, red tape, and on abuses of Federal loan programs, all adding up to current and future savings to you, the taxpayer, of billions of dollars. Well, I didn't have any illusions about making the front page with that information, and we didn't. But I thought you had a right to know we've been making progress in restoring government to its rightful role as the servant of the people. Today, I'd like to share with you some of the other things we're doing to protect your tax dollars and make government more efficient and responsive to your needs. One important area in which we've made real progress is the employment figure for nondefense Federal agencies. There are a number of vital functions that the Federal Government has to perform, as we all know. But the Federal Government should perform those functions in an efficient, economical manner. It shouldn't cost you, the taxpayer, a penny more than is needed to get the job done. With that in mind, we made a department-by-department, agency-by-agency review of government operations, looking for needless fat. As a result, by last January, there were 112,000 fewer people working in nondefense Federal agencies. Fifteen departments, agencies, and commissions have been able to reduce their payroll numbers by 20 percent or more. And we've accomplished 90 percent of these savings not by layoffs, but by just not replacing those who retired or left government service. And guess what? The Government is actually doing things more efficiently than it was before. We're still providing the needed services, and we're doing it with fewer people. The savings to the taxpayer is nearly a billion and a half dollars a year in salaries alone. As you know, most civilian government jobs are not particularly hazardous. Yet we found that one out of every four retirements from government service was a disability retirement. The government didn't require much evidence of disability and this led to considerable abuse of the system. Today, just by requiring adequate evidence before allowing that kind of retirement, the figure is down nearly 40 percent since 1979 with a savings to the taxpayer of more than a billion dollars by 1985. And to help prevent accidents and disabilities, we have initiated a new health and safety program for Federal employees to reduce the number of injury claims by 3 percent per year over the next 5 years. The civil service retirement system is one of the most generous in the world. And of course, we all want dedicated government employees to be rewarded for their efforts, just as the overwhelming majority of Americans who work in the private sector deserve to be. But sometimes civil servants have received preferred treatment. When we came to office, the civil service retirement system was indexing benefits to inflation twice a year, an advantage enjoyed by virtually no one in the private sector. By going to a once-a-year cost-of-living adjustment for Federal retirees and by making other fair adjustments, we have continued to protect them from inflation while saving the taxpayer some 2 1/2 billion by 1985. In recent weeks, there's been a lot of talk about my call for merit pay to reward outstanding teachers in America's schools. Well, I think the same principle should apply to the Federal Government itself. Earlier this year, we announced a proposal to require Federal employees to earn, not just automatically inherit, their pay raises. We're still working with Members of the Congress to refine this merit plan to reward good work and good workers so that you, the people, are better served by your government. Finally, there's something I'd like to get off my chest. It deals with all those headlines about the Pentagon paying $100 for a 4-cent diode or $900 for a plastic cap. What is missing or buried in all those stories about waste is who provided those figures for all the horror stories. This administration exposed those abusesabuses that had been going on for years. It was Defense Secretary Cap Weinberger's people, his auditors and inspectors, who ordered the audits in the first place, conducted the investigations, and formed a special unit to prosecute defense-related fraud. In just an 18-month period, the Defense Department has obtained 650 convictions, and we're going to keep on exposing these abuses where we find them. I thought you deserved to know that. Well, till next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last June, the 19th of June to be exact, a well-known TV network producer was the commencement speaker at the high school where he had graduated on that same day, June 19th, 43 years ago. In speaking to this year's graduates, he pointed out some things that should be of concern to them regarding the state of the world. They were items taken from the front page of a June 19th issue of the New York Times, their graduation day. He said, "In Washington, the administration is asking for more money, not to fight cancer or educate young people, but more money to build some of the most destructive weapons the world has ever seen." Not very reassuring for a high school graduate hoping to live to an old age, and not very reassuring, either, to have a President who is called a warmonger. He went on to say, "In Latin America, the Times tells us, the United States is prepared to go to war to keep unfriendly powers out of this hemisphere. If push comes to shove, a young high school graduate could end up fighting there." "In Europe," he told them, "a people not much different from you is being crushed in what the Times reports is being called an uncompromising and unrelenting fashion. And in Detroit, the Japanese threat, among other things, is forcing the Ford Motor Company out of the car business." He pointed out that it didn't seem like much of a world to look forward to, but there it was on page 1, graduation day, June 19th. Yes, his graduation day, June 19th, 1940. And as he went on to say, "We're all still here," although he wouldn't have bet on it back in 1940. The President being called a warmonger was Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who kept increasing the defense budget. The Japanese threat was military, not economic, and Ford was going into the fighter plane business. And, oh, yes, the European country that was being crushed was France, not Poland. Well, here it is 43 years later, and as he told that class of '83, "A good case can be made that the world is better, not worse." And the class of 1940 had something to do with that, just as the class of '83 can have a hand in making things better for graduating classes yet to be, even a class 43 years from now. Young Americans are already doing their share to build a better world. Today our servicemen are participating in multinational peacekeeping forces in Lebanon and the Sinai Peninsula. In the agreement between Lebanon and Israel, Israel agreed to withdraw its military forces totally. The responsibility now rests on others to negotiate in good faith on their own arrangements for withdrawal. Until this happens, Lebanon will remain a potential trouble spot. But our current efforts in Lebanon are only a small part of our search for peace in the Middle East, including a compassionate, fair, and practical resolution to the Palestinian problem. The Middle East peace initiative which we announced almost a year ago is definitely alive and available to those parties willing to sit down together and talk peace. We remain committed to the positions we set forth, and we stand ready to pursue them in the context of the Camp David accords. Those positions are in the best long-term interests of all parties. Most importantly, they're the only realistic basis for a solution that has thus far been presented. The United States continues to support UN Security Council Resolutions 338 and 242. The establishment of new Israeli settlements in the occupied territories is an obstacle to peace, and we're concerned over the negative effect that this activity has on Arab confidence in Israel's willingness to return territory in exchange for security and a freely and fairly negotiated peace treaty. The future of these settlements can only be dealt with through direct negotiations between the parties to the conflict. The sooner these negotiations begin, the greater the chance for a solution. This administration, like those before it, is firmly committed to the security of the State of Israel. We will help Israel defend itself against external aggression. At the same time, the United States believes, as it has always believed, that permanent security for the people of Israel and all the peoples of the region can only come with the achievement of a just and lasting peace, not by sole reliance on increasingly expensive military forces. Unfortunately, the opportunities afforded by our initiative have yet to be grasped by the parties involved. We know the issues are complex, the risks for all concerned high, and much courageous statesman statesmanship, excuse me, will be required. Nevertheless, those complex issues can be resolved by creative and persistent diplomacy. Those risks can be overcome by people who want to end this bitter and tragic conflict. And in the process, the United States will be a full partner, doing everything we can to help create a just and lasting peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This weekend marks the 89th observance of Labor Day, a special day for all Americans. Before I get to that topic, however, I'm going to speak to you briefly about the recent act of brutality that continues to horrify us all. I'm referring to the outrageous Soviet attack against the 269 people aboard the unarmed Korean passenger plane. This murder of innocent civilians is a serious international issue between the Soviet Union and civilized people everywhere who cherish individual rights and value human life. It is up to all of us, leaders and citizens of the world, to deal with the Soviets in a calm, controlled, but absolutely firm manner. We have joined in this call for an urgent U.N. Security Council meeting. The evidence is clear; it leaves no doubt; it is time for the Soviets to account. The Soviet Union owes the world a fullest possible explanation and apology for their inexcusable act of brutality. So far, they've flunked the test. Even now, they continue to distort and deny the truth. People everywhere can draw only one conclusion from their violent behavior: There is a glaring gap between Soviet words and deeds. They speak endlessly about their love of brotherhood, disarmament, and peace, but they reserve the right to disregard aviation safety and to sacrifice human lives. Make no mistake on this last point. This is not the first time the Soviets have shot at and hit a civilian airliner when it flew over Soviet territory. Our government does not shoot down foreign aircraft over U.S. territory, even though commercial aircraft from the Soviet Union and Cuba have overflown sensitive U.S. military facilities. We and other civilized countries follow procedures to prevent a tragedy, rather than to provoke one. But while the Soviets accuse others of wanting to return to the cold war, it's they who have never left it behind. I met with the National Security Council last night. Tomorrow I will meet with congressional leaders of both parties to discuss this issue, as well as the situation in Lebanon, on which the National Security Council met today. We're determined to move forward and to act in concert both with the Congress and other members of the international community. We must make sure that the fundamental rules of safety of travel are respected by all nations, even the Soviet Union. Now, let me turn to another subject that's also very much on our minds this weekend-Labor Day. More than any other country in the world, ours was built not by some small, privileged elite, but by the physical, mental, and moral strength of free working men and women; people who asked for nothing but the chance to build a better future in a climate of fairness and freedom. As one of the founding fathers of the American labor movement, Samuel Gompers, put it, our society is based on the right of working people "to be full sharers in the abundance which is the result of their brain and brawn and the civilization of which they are the founders and the mainstay." Those words have meant a lot to me over the years. I've always believed that America can only be true to itself when its promise is shared by all our people. One of the best ways to make sure that happens is to build a healthy, growing economy that opens up more and more opportunity to our people. We've been working at that for more than 21/2 years now. With your help and the help of a bipartisan group in the Congress, our efforts are showing good results. Just this week, Commerce Secretary Baldrige announced that in July inventories registered their biggest advance in 20 months. That means the economic recovery has boosted the confidence of manufacturers and encouraged business firms to restock. It adds up to more work for people in a wide range of industries and trades and means this recovery will continue to be strong. Meanwhile, the civilian unemployment rate has dropped by 1.3 percentage points since last December. The number of unemployed has declined by more than 1.3 million, and a healthy, growing economy has added almost 2 1/2 million people to the Nation's payrolls. Another good way of testing progress is to measure how well the American family, the average family, is doing today. An American family earning $25,000 has $600 more today in purchasing power than it would if inflation were still raging at its 1980 rate. And then there are your tax savings. The typical American family will pay $700 less in Federal income taxes than if the old 1980 rates were still in effect. Now, I know that for many Americans on this Labor Day, life is still tough. None of us can be fully satisfied until many more of our people find work. And we won't be satisfied until we cut inflation all the way back to zero. But every week, our economy is gaining fresh strength, and that's good news for us all. Finally, let me say that on this weekend, I hope you'll take a moment to celebrate not only the working people of this nation but something that makes it all possibleour freedom. As I mentioned at the outset, we've watched with horror these past few days as totalitarianism has shown its ghastly face once again. That's why here in America we must remain a bastion of free men and women working together toward a brighter future. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: During my first press conference 9 days after being sworn in as your President, I was asked a question having to do with Soviet intentions. In my answer I cited their own wordsthat they have openly and publicly declared the only morality they recognize is what will further world communism; that they reserve unto themselves the right to commit any crime, to lie, to cheat, in order to attain that. And I pointed out that we should keep this in mind when we deal with them. I was charged with being too harsh in my language. I tried to point out I was only quoting their own words. Well, I hope the Soviets' recent behavior will dispel any lingering doubt about what kind of regime we're dealing with and what our responsibilities are as trustees of freedom and peace. Isn't it time for all of us to see the Soviet rulers as they are, rather than as we would like them to be? Rather than tell the truth about the Korean Air Lines massacre, rather than immediately and publicly investigate the crash, explain to the world how it happened, punish those guilty of the crime, cooperate in efforts to find the wreckage, recover the bodies, apologize and offer compensation to the families, and work to prevent a repetition, they have done the opposite. They've stonewalled the world, mobilizing their entire government behind a massive coverup, then brazenly threatening to kill more men, women, and children should another civilian airliner make the same mistake as KAL 007. The Soviets are terrified of the truth. They understand well and they dread the meaning of St. John's words: "You will know the truth, and the truth will set you free." The truth is mankind's best hope for a better world. That's why in times like this, few assets are more important than the Voice of America and Radio Liberty, our primary means of getting the truth to the Russian people. Within minutes of the report of the Soviet destruction of the Korean jet, the Voice of America aired the story in its news programs around the globe. We made sure people in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Europe and, most important, the people in the Soviet bloc itself knew the truth. That includes every Soviet misstatement, from their initial denials through all the tortured changes and contradictions in their story, including their U.N. representative still denying they shot down the plane even as his own government was finally admitting they did. Accurate news like this is about as web come as the plague among the Soviet elite. Censorship is as natural and necessary to the survival of their dictatorship as free speech is to our democracy. That's why they devote such enormous resources to block our broadcasts inside Soviet-controlled countries. The Soviets spend more to block Western broadcasts coming into those countries than the entire worldwide budget of the Voice of America. To get the news across to the Russian people about the Korean Air Lines massacre, the Voice of America added new frequencies and new broadcast times. But within minutes of those changes, new Soviet jamming began. Luckily, jamming is more like a sieve than a wall. International radio broadcasts can still get through to many people with the news. But we still face enormous difficulties. One of the Voice of America's listeners in the Middle East wrote, "If you do not strengthen your broadcasting frequencies, no one can get anything from your program." Our radio equipment is just plain old, some of it World War II vintage. I don't mind people getting older; it's just not so good for machines. More than 35 percent of the Voice of America's transmitters are over 30 years old. We have a similar problem at Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. We have 6 antiquated 500-kilowatt shortwave transmitters. The Soviets have 37, and theirs are neither old nor outdated. We regularly receive complaints that Soviet broadcasts are clearer than ours. One person wrote and asked why it's not possible for a nation that can send ships into space to have its own voice heard here on Earth. The answer is simple. We're as far behind the Soviets and their allies in international broadcasting today as we were in space when they launched sputnik in 1957. We've repeatedly urged the Congress to support our long-term modernization program and our proposal for a new radio station, Radio Marti, for broadcasting to Cuba. The sums involved are modest, but for whatever reason this critical program has not been enacted. Today I'm appealing to the Congress: Help us get the truth through. Help us strengthen our international broadcasting effort by supporting increased funding for the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, Radio Liberty, and by authorizing the establishment of Radio Marti. And I appeal to you, especially those of you who came from Eastern Europe, Russia, and Soviet-dominated countries, who understand how crucial this issue is, let your Representatives hear from you. Tell them you want Soviet rulers held accountable for their actions even by their own people. The truth is still our strongest weapon; we just have to use it. Finally, let us come together as a nation tomorrow in a National Day of Mourning to share the sorrow of the families and let us resolve that this crime against humanity will never be forgotten anywhere in the world. Until next week, thank you for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Five days after the Soviets shot down KAL 007, I went on nationwide television to urge that all of us in the civilized world make sure such an atrocity never happens again. And I pledged to you that night, we would cooperate with other countries to improve the safety of civil aviation, asking them to join us in not accepting the Soviet airline Aeroflot as a normal member of the international civil air communitynot, that is, until the Soviets satisfy the cries of humanity for justice. On Thursday, an American delegation lead by Lynn Helms, who heads up the Federal Aviation Administration, went to Montreal for an emergency session of the ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organization. This meeting was called at the request of the Republic of Korea, and 32 countries are attending. The group immediately went to work on a resolution to call for an international investigation, to deplore this atrocity, and to review procedures to prevent civilian aircraft from ever being attacked again. Yesterday, the resolution passed by an overwhelming majority. The Soviets have not budged. Apparently, their contempt for the truth and for the opinion of the civilized world is equaled only by their disdain for helpless people like the passengers aboard KAL Flight 007. They reserve for themselves the right to live by one set of rules, insisting everyone else live by another. They're supremely confident their crime and coverup will soon be forgotten, and we'll all be back to business as usual. Well, I believe they're badly mistaken. This case is far from closed. The Soviets aggression has provoked a fundamental and long overdue reappraisal in countries all over the globe. The Soviet Union stands virtually alone against the world. Good and decent people everywhere are coming together, and the world's outrage has not diminished. Repercussions such as that emergency ICAO meeting in Montreal are just beginning. Take the example of aviation. Canada suspended Aeroflot landing rights for 60 days and froze the signing of an agreement for Aeroflot refueling at Gander. The Canadian Air Traffic Controllers Association has withdrawn from a longstanding exchange agreement with its Soviet counterpart organization. The IFALPAthat's the International Federation of Air Line Pilot Associations-declared the U.S.S.R. an offending state. It called for its member associations to ban all flights to Moscow for 60 days, and it called on related international unions and professional associations to take similar actions. It demanded Soviet guarantees that similar attacks will never be repeated, and what is most encouraging because it underscores this reappraisal I mentioned, the IFALPA promised to consider further actions against the Soviets if no such guarantees are given. Scandinavian Airlines has suspended flights within Soviet airspace for 60 days. Norwegian pilots and air traffic controllers are boycotting all air service between Norway and the Soviet Union. With the exception of France, Greece, and Turkey, all the NATO nations and Japan have temporarily suspended civil air traffic between their respective nations and the Soviet Union. Even neutral Switzerland and pilots in Finland have joined the general boycott. Australia and New Zealand are also taking strong measures in the area of civil aviation. In the United Nations, the Security Council voted a resolution deploring the Soviet attack, forcing the Soviets to cast their veto to block its adoption. Here, too, we're seeing evidence that a fundamental reappraisal is in the works. Most countries rebuke the Kremlin. Only a few of Moscow's dependables stood up for its defense. Nonaligned nations are looking to the United States for leadership. I've instructed our Ambassador to the U.N., Jeane Kirkpatrick, to sit down with them to seek out new areas of cooperation. In the Congress, both the House and the Senate mobilized overwhelming bipartisan support for a resolution of condemnation. Some would have us lash out in another way by canceling our grain shipments. But that would punish American farmers, not the Soviet aggressors. The most effective, lasting action against their violence and intimidation-and it's the one action the Soviets would welcome leastwill be to go forward with America's program to remain strong. I'm confident that if enough of you at the grassroots make your voices heard, we can and will do just that. We may not be able to change the Soviets ways, but we can change our attitude toward them. We can stop pretending they share the same dreams and aspirations we do. We can start preparing ourselves for what John F. Kennedy called a long twilight struggle. It won't be quick, it won't make headlines, and it sure won't be easy, but it's what we must do to keep America strong, keep her free, and yes, preserve the peace for our children and for our children's children. This is the most enduring lesson of the Korean Air Lines massacre. If we grasp it, then history will say this tragedy was a major turning point, because this time the world did not go back to business as usual. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans and fellow citizens of the world: This is Ronald Reagan, President of the United States, speaking to you live from the broadcast studios of the Voice of America in Washington, D.C. In 2 days I will be going to the United Nations General Assembly to speak for a cause that people everywhere carry close to their heartsthe cause of peace. This subject is so important I wanted to share our message with a larger audience than I usually address each Saturday afternoon in the United States. So today I'm speaking directly to people everywhere, from Los Angeles to New Delhi, Cairo, Bangkok, and I'm attempting to speak directly to the people of the Soviet Union. I'd like to talk about ideas and feelings all of us share which I intend to communicate to the United Nations on Monday: Let me begin by bringing you greetings from the American people and our heartfelt wishes for peace. In these times of stress, I believe that the people of the world must know and understand how each other feel, their fears as well as their dreams. We Americans are a peace-loving people. We seek friendship not only with our traditional allies but with our adversaries, too. We've had serious differences with the Soviet Government, but we should remember that our sons and daughters have never fought each other in war and, if we Americans have our way, we never will. People don't make wars; governments do. And too many Soviet and American citizens have already shed too much blood because of violence by governments. The American people want less confrontation and more communication and cooperation, more opportunity to correspond, to speak freely with all people over our respective radio and television programs and, most important, to visit each other in our homes so we could better understand your countries and you could know the truth about America. The treasure we Americans cherish most is our freedomfreedom to lead our lives the way we choose, freedom to worship God, to think for ourselves, and freedom to speak our minds even to the point of criticizing our own government. We do not believe in censorship. When another government criticizes us, we know about it. And if they ever say something good, you can bet we'll know that, too. The trouble is, we don't always have that same freedom to speak to others, especially those who live in the Soviet Union. And one-way communication prevents us from better understanding each other. For example, the Soviet Government has taken extraordinary steps to justify its firing on a Korean civilian airliner, killing 269 helpless people from 14 countries. But I ask those who have been told the United States is responsible: If you're hearing the truth, why has the outcry been so intense from members of the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Organization, and why are pilots all over the world boycotting flights to Moscow? We have no quarrel with you, the Soviet people. But please understand, the world believes no government has a right to shoot civilian airliners out of the sky. Your airline, Aeroflot, has violated sensitive U.S. airspace scores of times, yet we would never fire on your planes and risk killing one of your friends or your loved ones. Now, I guess the picture painted of me by the officials in some countries is pretty grim. May I just sayand I speak not only as the President of the United States but also as a husband, a father, a grandfather, and as a person who loves God and whose heart yearns deeply for a better futuremy dream is for our peoples to come together in a spirit of faith and friendship, to help build and leave behind a far safer world. But dreams for the future cannot be realized by words alone. Words must be matched by deeds, by an honest, tireless effort to reduce the risks of war and the loss of life. In this era of nuclear weapons, no achievement could be more meaningful than a verifiable agreement that would dramatically reduce the level of nuclear armaments. American negotiators in Geneva are offering fair-minded, equitable proposals in the interests of both our countries. In the strategic arms reduction talks, we propose deep cuts in both the number of warheads carried by intercontinental ballistic missiles and in the number of missiles themselves. This proposal offered cuts to far below current United States levels. The Soviet Government declined to consider them. We tried again. Last June we proposed a more flexible approach. Then, during the last round of talks in Geneva, we presented a draft treaty responding to concerns expressed by the Soviet Government. Also, from the outset of the intermediate-range nuclear force talks 2 years ago, I made clear that the United States was ready to join with the Soviet Union in the total elimination of an entire class of intermediate-range, land-based nuclear missiles. That offer still stands. I regret that the Soviet Government continues to reject this proposal. What could possibly be better than to rid the world of an entire class of nuclear weapons? But in the effort to move the negotiations forward, we proposed an interim solution-some number on both sides below current levels. Again, the Soviet Government refused. I'm deeply aware of people's feelings and frustrations. I share them. And I intend to keep trying. On Monday, I will go to the United Nations to propose another package of steps designed to advance the negotiations. All we seek are agreements to reduce substantially the number and destructive power of nuclear forces. Yes, we insist on balanced agreements that protect our security, that provide greater stability, and that are truly verifiable, but these requirements are the essence of fairness. They would provide greater security for all nations. We, the American people, deeply yearn for peace. If our dreams and hopes are to mean anything, we must sit down together and in good faith let honest negotiations bring us a safer world. But I must speak plainly. Just as government censorship is a barrier to understanding, the inflexibility of the Soviet Government on arms control is holding back successful negotiations. I have said to my own people, you have the right to expect a better world and to demand that your government work for it. This Monday I will have the honor to carry that message to the 38th General Session of the United Nations. It will be a commitment from the heart and one that I know all people share. For the sake of our children and our children's children, I pray that the Soviet Government will not censor my words, but will let their people listen to them and then negotiate with us in good faith. Thank you for listening, and God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans: With autumn here, schools reopened, and people back at work, a question is on everyone's mind: Will the economic recovery last and the job market continue to improve? Well, I believe the answer is yes. I'm bullish on America. I've been called an optimist. But I'm not like the fellow who notices a car has a fiat tire, and says, "It's all right; the tire's only flat on the bottom." My optimism springs from solid evidence that America has turned the corner toward longterm economic expansion. If all of us act responsibly we can enjoy a renaissance of growth, progress, and opportunities, free from the ruinous inflation and record interest rates of old. America's job picture will improve during the next 3 months, and it's likely to get even better after April. That's the good news from a nationwide survey of 11,400 employers in 354 cities, conducted by Manpower, Incorporated. Other recent surveys reflect increases in help wanted ads across the country. Some of the biggest increases were in the areas that need jobs the most-industrial Midwest States like Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin. Georgia, Maryland, Florida, Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, Tennessee, and Kentucky also saw increases above the national average. Growth creates more growth. As workers are called back and start receiving paychecks, the economy expands, increasing the need for still more workers. Since last December the number of unemployed has declined by 1.3 million, and economic growth has added nearly 2 1/2 million people to America's work force. But we must not rest till every American who wants a job can find a job. We need the strength of every back and the power of every mind. Still, let's not be swayed by downbeats who never admit anything's right, never acknowledge the huge problems we inherited, and never admit the progress we've made reducing inflation, interest rates, and yes, creating new jobs. The truth is more Americans are working now than at any time in this nation's history. The rising tide of employment is reaching across America into communities large and small, farms and factories, and it's helping people from all walks of life. Sixty percent of the jobs lost in the construction industry during the last recession have been recovered; add to that 70 percent of the jobs in furniture and fixtures, 90 percent in rubber and plastics, 90 percent in automobiles, and 125 percent in lumber and wood products. One of the most encouraging trends we're seeing is higher employment for women: 2.3 million more women are working now than before we took office. And the jobs are better, too. Women filled more than half of all new jobs in managerial, professional, and technical fields between 1980 and 1982. Also, did you know that self-employed women are the fastest growing part of our business communitygrowing, in fact, five times faster than the number of self-employed men? It puzzles me why we hear so little about this progress, this proof that opportunities for all Americans are expanding. Now, many of the people who remain jobless are part of a category economists call "structural unemployment." They may live in economically depressed areas where firms and factories have become outmoded, or they may lack the skills and training needed to seize opportunities in the new service industries and areas of high technology. One of the most serious problems we still face is youth unemployment. Nearly 40 percent of the unemployed in America are less than 25 years old, and nearly half of that group are teenagers. But there's hope. To strengthen the skills of young Americans, to provide new opportunities for prospective workers of all ages, we've charted a new approach that looks to the future rather than the past. Beginning today, October 1st, an historic and bold programthe Job Training Partnership Act-will train and retrain more than a million people a year for productive, lasting jobs in the private economy. At the core of my philosophy is the belief that progress begins with trusting people. You at the grassroots can spend your tax dollars far more wisely and productively than any collection of bureaucrats in the Federal Government. That's why this Job Training Partnership Act will be a major step forward from past programs. Unlike the old CETA program run primarily by government officials and which either didn't provide enough training or else trained people for jobs that didn't exist, this program will be planned by business and labor people in your own communities-those who know best what training is needed for existing jobs. They'll be receiving the block grants that the Federal Government sends to their own State governments. This time, private enterprise will be participating in a very meaningful way. The business and labor people will be working together in organizations called PIC'sPrivate Industry Councils, designed to provide training skills needed right on Main Street America. At least 70 cents of every Job Training Partnership Act dollar must go to training. On Monday, the Indianapolis Private Industry Council will start sponsoring training at ITT to place low-income youth and adults in existing jobs. In Wilmington, welfare women will be trained for skilled, entry-level jobs. These are just two examples among many of hope being reborn across America. No civilization can survive and grow if it does not learn the lessons of its own history. The Job Training Partnership Act is an important reform that demonstrates we're not only correcting mistakes from our past, we're moving with wisdom and confidence to shape a brighter future. The outlook for America is good and getting better. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm sure you're all aware of the debate during recent days and weeks with regard to our marines in Lebanon. Congress, on a strong bipartisan basis, has passed a resolution approving their presence there for 18 months if need be. But in the debate, many questions were raised as to what they were doing there and whether their presence there was in our national interest. In the midst of all this debate, I received a letter from the father of a young marine corporal stationed in Beirut, Lebanon. Justly proud of his son, he enclosed a clipping from his hometown paper. It was a letter to the editor written by his son. And here's what the young corporal had to say about the marines and whether or not there was a reason for their presence in Lebanon. His family had been sending him the hometown paper, and he'd noticed "editorials and opinions denouncing American involvement in the various troublespots of the world, particularly Central America and the Middle East." He went on to say, "I've been keeping up with what's happening in Central America, and I have firsthand knowledge of what is happening in the Middle East. In the case of Central America, the general American consensus is to stay out, that we're getting into another Vietnam. Whenever American military forces go abroad, the average American believes that we should keep to ourselves and mind our own business. I'm not an advocate of war," he says, "as I've seen the ravages of war here in Lebanon. War is a very terrible thing. Yet when diplomatic methods fail, we must be prepared to defend and, if necessary, to die for what we believe in, for the American way of life. I do not enjoy being here in Beirut. My fellow marines and I miss the simple yet wonderful aspects of life back home that so many take for granted. Yet, we realize we'll be going home in a few months. But the people of, say, El Salvador or Lebanon are home. For them, there is no escape. It is our duty as Americans to stop the cancerous spread of Soviet influence wherever it may be, because someday we or some future generation will wake up and find the U.S.A. to be the only free state left, with communism upon our doorstep. And then it will be too late." A young marine corporal writing from Beirut, Lebanon, to his hometown paper-there's no doubt in his mind about the need for us to have a presence there. But many of us are not that sure. Many believe we are involving ourselves needlessly in someone else's quarrel and should bring our young men home and mind our own business. The corporal may not have spelled out the specifies as to why it was in our best interest to be there, but he was certainly correct in his conclusion that it is our business. Can the United States or the free world stand by and see the Middle East incorporated into the Soviet bloc? What of Western Europe and Japan's dependence on Middle East oil for the energy to fuel their industry? Do we remember the oil embargo and the lines at our own gas stations? And didn't we assume a moral obligation to the continued existence of Israel as a nation back in 1948? I've never heard anyone in this country ever suggest that we should abandon that obligation. A little over a year ago, I proposed a peace initiative for the entire Middle East. It was based on the Camp David accords and the United Nations Resolutions 242 and 338. We offered our help in bringing the Arab States and Israel together in negotiations to settle the longstanding disputes that had kept that entire area in turmoil for many years. We sought more peace treaties like the one between Egypt and Israel. Lebanon, the site of refugee camps for a great many Palestinians, had been torn by strife for several years. There were factions, each with its own militia, fighting each other. Terrorists in Lebanon violated Israel's northern border, killing innocent civilians. Syrian forces occupied the eastern part of Lebanon. Israeli military finally invaded from the south to force the PLO attackers away from the border. There could be no implementation of our peace initiative until this situation was resolved. With our alliesEngland, France, and Italywe proposed a withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon and formed a multinational force to help maintain order and stability in the Beirut area while a new Lebanese Government and army undertook to restore sovereignty throughout Lebanon. Over the course of several months, Lebanon and Israel negotiated a friendly agreement for security of the border between the two. We stand by this as a good agreement. But Syria, which had earlier agreed to withdraw if Israel did, changed its mind, and today has some 5,000 Soviet advisers and technicians and a massive amount of new Soviet equipment in its country, including a new generation of surface-to-surface missilesthe SS-21. We have to wonder aloud about Syrian protestations of their peaceful intentions. For a year, we've continued diplomatic negotiations leading to the present ceasefire. President Gemayel is committed to a process of national reconciliation as the means to end factional fighting. The presence of our marines as part of the multinational force demonstrates that Lebanon does not stand alone. Peace for the Middle East and a fair settlement of the Palestinian problem is truly in our national interest. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I know I court trouble when I dispute experts who specialize in spotting storm clouds and preaching doom and gloom. But at the risk of being the skunk that invades their garden party, I must warn them: Some very good news is sneaking up on you. The quality of American life is improving again. "Quality of life"that's a term often used but seldom defined. Certainly our standard of living is part of it, and one good measure of that is purchasing power. Just a few years ago, double-digit inflation was bleeding our purchasing power. Record price increases, interest rates, and taxation punished the thrifty, impoverished the needy, and discouraged entrepreneurs. When an economy goes haywire, confidence is destroyed. Well, today the tables have been turned. Double-digit inflation is gone, and confidence is coming back. In 1980 the U.S. ranked only 10th among 20 industrial nations in per capita income. By the end of 1982, we'd climbed all the way up to third place. Our stronger dollar has increased purchasing power. Real wages are up. And inflation is down to 2.6 percent. Sometimes when we shop we don't realize how much inflation has dropped, because prices are still going up. But they're going up much more slowly than before. If food prices had kept rising as fast the last 2 years as the 2 years before we took office, a loaf of bread would cost 7 cents more than it does today, a half gallon of milk 18 cents more, a pound of hamburger 60 cents more, and a gallon of gas 97 cents more. The prime interest rate has been cut nearly in half, so costs of business, mortgage, education, and car loans have dropped. The Federal income tax on a typical working family is $700 less than if our tax program had not been passed. With parents, students, entrepreneurs, workers, and consumers feeling more secure, opportunities for jobs are expanding. Our work force in September rose by nearly 400,000 to 101.9 millionthe highest level in American history. And the trend will continue. Quality of life is not just more jobs, it's also better jobs. And we're seeing better opportunities opening up for all Americans. Women, for example, filled more than half of all the new jobs in managerial, professional, and technical fields between 1980 and 1982. The number of women-owned businesses is growing five times faster than men's. The future looks brighter. To get a peek at what tomorrow's jobs and products may be, look at the venture capital industry. This is where high-powered capital is invested and much of the technological revolution is taking place. During the first 9 months of 1983, the venture industry raised about $2% billion-nearly three times more than in all of 1980. The General Accounting Office has already estimated that previous venture investments of some $209 million in the sample of 72 companies directly generated 130,000 jobs during the decade of the seventies. Well, if $209 million of venture capital generated 130,000 jobs in 10 years, imagine how many jobs $21/2 billion will create during the next year. And like interest that compounds, growth and opportunities create more growth and more opportunities. Capital spending by business, a key source of higher productivity and new jobs, helped propel the economy forward in the third quarter. Much of the increase in spending went for products of high technology like computers and word processors. We're witnessing an industrial renaissance, and this is only act one. It's being nourished by incentives from lower tax rates, starting with the 1978 capital gains tax reduction, passed, incidentally, over the objections of the last administration, and followed by our own more sweeping tax cut program in 1981. Our program to create opportunity and bring big government under control, the subsequent decline in inflation and interest rates, and prospects for robust growth have all led to another basic change: Americans' confidence in their institutions is turning up after nearly two decades of decline. A 1982 survey by the University of Michigan found people more likely to say they trusted the government to do what is right. Looking beyond the economy, we see more evidence that the quality of life is improving. Life expectancy reached a record high last year, climbing to 74.5 years. Infant mortality declined to an all-time low with only 11.2 deaths per 1,000 live births. And the number of divorces dropped for the first time since 1962. Serious crime dropped 3 percent, the first measurable decline since 1977. Quality education, an American traditionbut one neglected for yearswill be restored, thanks to leadership in Washington and vigorous action by your families at the grassroots. Good things are happening in America. Confidence is returning. Our quality of life is improving because your voices, voices of common sense, are finally getting through. Believe me, it wasn't Washington experts who said government is too big, taxes are too high, criminals are coddled, education's basics are neglected, and values of family and faith are being undermined. That was your message; you made reforms possible. With your help, we'll make even more progress, because I'll be the first to admit much more progress needs to be made. We're on a new road for America, a far better road, filled with hope and opportunities. Our critics may never be satisfied with anything we do, but I can only say those who created the worst economic mess in postwar history should be the last people crying wolf 1,000 days into this administration, when so many trends that were headed the wrong way are headed back in the right direction. Thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about the deep desire we share to reduce nuclear weapons and to make our world more safe. Just as important I want you to know why, despite all our good faith efforts, we are being frustrated in our goal to negotiate an arms reduction agreement. No issue concerns me more and has taken up more of my timenot just in meetings with advisers but in deliberations with Members of the Congress and close and constant consultations with our alliesthan this quest for a breakthrough on arms reductions. And believe me, I do so willingly, because as your President and also as a husband, father, and grandfather, I know what's at stake for everyone. The trouble is, the obstacle to that agreement we want so dearly is not Washington, and it never has been; it's Moscow. And that's been the case in all our current arms reduction negotiations with the Soviet Union. But today I'd like to focus on the longer range INF missile negotiations now underway in Geneva. Some have asked, "If we do want an agreement, why are we, the United States, planning to base new missiles in Europe?" Well, the question reflects some basic misunderstandings. It's been the Soviet Union who's been deploying such forces for a number of years, while the West watched and worried. In 1977 the Soviets had in place 600 warheads on their longer range INF missiles. More significantly, they began adding the SS-20, a new, highly accurate mobile missile with three warheads, which could reach in minutes every city in Europe and many cities in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. NATO had no comparable weapons. In October 1979 Soviet leader Brezhnev announced a balance now exists. The Soviet Union800 warheads; NATOzero. Some balance. It was only at this point at the end of 1979 that the NATO alliance, not the United States alone, decided the Soviets' large and growing advantage in both nuclear and conventional forces would threaten our safety. So, the alliance made what was called the "dual-track decision." We would redress the imbalance by deploying comparable weapons, while seeking an agreement at the negotiating table that would eliminate the need for deployment. Nothing more dramatically illustrates our sincere desire for peace than our willingness not to deploy if the Soviets would stop threatening Europe with their missiles. How did the Soviets respond? By adding one new missile every week. They now have 1,300 warheads or more, and that number is growing. NATO still has zero. All along we've been negotiating in good faith. We asked the Soviets to consider the total elimination of these missiles. It took them less than 24 hours to answer, "Nyet." So we proposed an interim solution, some equal but lower number, and the lower the better. With knee-jerk speed, the same answer came back again, "Nyet." And it's remained the same for all our new proposals, because the Soviets insist on a monopoly of longer range INF missiles. They offer what can only be called "a half-zero option," zero for us, hundreds of warheads for them. As I told the members of the United Nations, that's where things stand today. We will continue our efforts to make the Soviets heed the will of the world, stop stonewalling, and start negotiating in good faith. But that wish should not become father to the thought. We must look at Soviet words and deeds with a clear head and ask some long overdue questions. Why does a regime which says it seeks peace repeatedly reject equitable proposals that would preserve peace? What are we to think of Soviet threats against NATO countries: warning Turkey it could become "a nuclear cemetery;" telling Scandinavian countries they are "a bridgehead for aggression;" and advising West Germany if new missiles are deployed, the military threat to it will grow manifold? These are not words of a peacemaker but of a nation bent on intimidation. It is inconceivable that any Western leader would make such crude and provocative threats. Finally, what is the credibility of a regime which exploits peace demonstrations in the West, but brutally puts down any demonstration for reduced weaponry in its own country? As President Mitterrand of France recently observed, "Pacifism is in the West, and Euro-missiles are in the East. I consider that an unequal relationship." My fellow Americans, the values of Western civilization and the beliefs that bind free people together are being tested. The Soviets are engaged' in a campaign to intimidate the West, but it will not work. At home, bipartisan support in the Congress remains strong. And the unity of our NATO alliance will not break. Just this week, Prime Minister Craxi of Italy visited the White House and assured me of Italy's continued staunch support. Earlier this year, at the Williamsburg summit, the leaders of the industrialized nations agreed the policy is correct, fair, and should go forward. The spirit of Williamsburg is as strong as ever. There is simply no sensible alternative to the parallel goal of deterrence and arms reduction. We will remain at the negotiating table just as long as it takes to reach a breakthrough. But the Soviets must understand: NATO's mission is to defend Europe and preserve peace, which it has done for 34 years. And NATO will continue to meet its responsibilities. Our countries will remain united, strong, and we will protect the safety of our people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Before getting into today's subject, I would just like to say a heartfelt word of thanks to all of you for the thousands of wires and calls that have come in, supportive of the actions of these last few days and, particularly, supportive and grateful to those young men in uniform who are performing so magnificently. Now today, I'd like to talk about a very important decision that was made Thursday by the Defense Ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO, as it's commonly called. This decision has great importance for us and for the NATO Alliance as a whole, because it addresses the future size and composition of our shorter range nuclear forces in Europe. As you know, we're negotiating with the Soviets in Geneva on the longer range missiles. The current imbalance on those systems is over 350 to 0 in their favor. But with regard to the shorter range missiles, the tactical missiles, I think you'll be very pleased with today's news. But first, a little background. The nuclear forces in Europe are fundamental to our overall strategy of deterrence and to protecting our allies and ourselves. The weapons strengthen NATO and protect the peace because they show that the alliance is committed to sharing the risks and the benefits of mutual defense. Just by being there, these weapons deter others from aggression and, thereby, serve the cause of peace. Unfortunately, we must keep them there until we can convince the Soviets and others that the best thing would be a world in which there is no further need for nuclear weapons at all. The alliance's goal, as General Rogers, NATO's Supreme Allied Commander for Europe, has so often said, is to maintain no more military forces than are absolutely necessary for deterrence and defense. In December of 1979 NATO reached a decision to reduce immediately the number of shorter range nuclear weapons stationed in Europe. In 1980 we carried out that decision by removing 1,000 of these weapons. The same decision also committed the alliance to a further review of the remaining systems of this category, and that brings us to our decision of Thursday. Drawing on the recommendation put forward by a special, high-level study group, the NATO Defense Ministers decided that in addition to the 1,000 nuclear weapons which we withdrew in 1980, the overall size of the NATO nuclear stockpile could be reduced by an additional 1,400 weapons. When these 2,400 weapons have been withdrawn, the United States will have reduced its nuclear weapons in Europe by over one-third from 1979 levels, and NATO will have the lowest number of nuclear weapons in 20 years. What this means is that the alliance will have removed at least five nuclear weapons for every new missile warhead we will deploy if the negotiations in Geneva don't lead to an agreement. This step, taken by the alliance as a whole, stands in stark contrast to the actions of the Soviet Union. The Soviet leaders have so far refused to negotiate in good faith at the Geneva talks. Since our 1979 decision to reduce nuclear forces, the Soviet Union has added over 600 SS-20 warheads to their arsenal. Coupled with this, they offer threats and the acceleration of previous plans, which they now call countermeasures, if NATO carries through with its deployment plan intended to restore the balance. The comparison of Soviet actions with NATO's reductions and restraint clearly illustrates once again that the so-called arms race has only one participantthe Soviet Union. On Thursday NATO took a dramatic and far-reaching decision, a decision that puts us a giant step along the path toward increased stability in Europe and around the world. As we reduce our nuclear warheads in Europe and, of equal importance, take the necessary actions to maintain the effectiveness of the resulting force, we will continue in the future what we've accomplished so well in the pastto deter Soviet aggression. We seek peace and we seek security, and the NATO decision serves both. Now, let me bring you up to date on the negotiations in Geneva. Progress toward an equitable, verifiable agreement on the reduction of intermediate-range nuclear missiles has been slow to come. Most recently, I proposed three initiatives which go a long way toward meeting important concerns expressed by the Soviet Union. By our actions on the talks we have ensured that all of the elements of a mutually advantageous agreement are on the table. The Soviet Union has now advanced some additional proposals of its own. We'll study these proposals, and we'll address them in the talks in Geneva. Unfortunately, the Soviet proposals permit them to retain SS-20 missiles while not allowing NATO to deploy its own. The proposals are also coupled with an explicit threat to break off the Geneva talks. I hope that the Soviet Union is truly interested in achieving an agreement. The test will be whether the Soviets, having advanced their latest proposals, decide finally to negotiate seriously in Geneva. For our part, we continue to seek an equitable and verifiable. agreement as quickly as possible. We will stay at the negotiating table for as long as necessary to achieve such an agreement. Thank you for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Next Friday, November 11th, we'll celebrate Veterans Daythe day America sets aside to honor millions of our finest heroes. They are the men and women who defend our country and preserve our peace and freedom. This Veterans Day offers more reason than ever to think about what these special people mean to America. Our most recent heroesthose still serving and those who have just come back from Beirut and Grenadacarried on with the same dedication and valor as their colleagues before them. If we remember that their dedicated service is in defense of our freedom and if we understand that they put their lives on the line so we might enjoy justice and liberty, then their sacrifices will not be in vain. This is our obligation. And this has been the spirit of Veterans Day from the beginning. Veterans Day was originally called Armistice Day. It was first celebrated in 1919, the year we commemorated the armistice ending a war that was to have ended all wars. Two years later, a solemn ceremony was held in Chalons-sur-Marne, a town in northeastern France. The ceremony would have deep meaning for America. The remains of four unknown American soldiers had been brought to the town square from four American military cemeteries in France. An American sergeant, Edward F. Younger, placed a bouquet of white roses on one of the caskets. The American Unknown Soldier of World War I had been designated. After transport across the Atlantic aboard Admiral Dewey's flagship, the cruiser Olympia, our nation laid this hero to rest in Arlington National Cemetery on Armistice Day, November 11, 1921. Sixty-two years have now passed. Millions of people from every corner of the world have come to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier to pay their respects to America's fallen heroes. The First World War did not end all wars. The assault on freedom and human dignity did not end. Our nation had laid to rest too many other heroes. From Guadalcanal and Omaha Beach to Mig Alley and Pork Chop Hill, from Khe Sanh and the A Shau Valley to Beirut, America's best continue to give of themselves for us and for freedom-loving people everywhere. Yes, veterans have given their best for all of us, and we must continue to do our best by them. Today, I reaffirm my determination to obtain the fullest possible accounting for our Americans missing in Southeast Asia. The sacrifices they made and may still be making and the uncertainty their families still endure deeply trouble us all. We must not rest until we know their fate. Our hearts turn also to our disabled veterans. Their sacrifices and hardship endure every day of the year. A compassionate government will show them that we do remember and honor them. We will meet their special needs. In particular, there is no substitute for caring, quality health care, and that care will be provided. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to visit Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. I went there to pay tribute to the many who gave their last full measure of their devotion. They kept faith with us and, indeed, they were heroes. Where do we get such brave young Americans? And where do we get those that came to their aidthe marines in Beirut who witnessed an unspeakable tragedy and returned to their posts with the same dedication and even greater resolve; the air crews working around the clock; the Army doctors performing medical miracles; and the sailors helping in countless ways? Such men and women can only come from a nation that remains true to the ideals of our Founding Fathers. I also met with families and friends of those who lost their lives. I share their sorrow, and they have my prayers, as I know they have yours. These brave men protected our heritage of liberty. We must carry on. I believe we can and will. The spirit and patriotism that made America great is alive and well. There was a brief ceremony in a hospital ward of Fort Bragg, North Carolina, last week that showed what I'm talking about. News photographers were taking pictures of soldiers who had just been awarded Purple Hearts and other decorations for valor. One wounded soldier, Private First Class Timothy Romick of the First Battalion, 75th Rangers, wearing a Purple Heart and a Combat Infantry Badge on his pajamas, interrupted the photographers. He said, "Wait a minute." And he pulled out a small American flag. This young Army ranger put the flag above his decorations. And then he said, "Okay. You can take your pictures now, because this is what I'm proudest of." Each time our nation has called upon our citizens to serve, the best have come forward. Words cannot express our gratitude and admiration. But we can and should take the opportunity on this Veterans Day to remember their gift to us. When you see one of our young men and women in uniform on the street or someplace, how about a smiling "hello" and, maybe, a "thank you." Veterans know better than anyone else the price of freedom, for they've suffered the scars of war. We can offer them no better tribute than to protect what they have won for us. That is our duty. They have never let America down. We will not let them down. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm sure you've heard Nancy and I have been traveling far from home this week. We're visiting two of America's most valued friends in the Pacific, Japan and the Republic of Korea. The great energy and vitality of these free people is most impressive, and we're enchanted by the treasures of their past. We visited the revered and lovely Meiji Shrine in Tokyo. While there, we watched an exhibition of Yabusame, a spectacular equestrian sport dating hundreds of years, where riders gallop at full gait shooting arrows at three separate targets. On Friday I had the honor of being the first American President to address the Japanese Diet, their national parliament. Today we're in South Korea, a staunch ally recently struck by great tragedythe downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007, followed by the assassination of key members of the Korean Cabinet. This has brought grief and bitterness to this part of the world, but it has also brought new determination. Free people, no matter where they live, must stand together against terrorism. We stand united with the people of Japan and Korea. I will underline our commitment on Sunday when I visit our GI's along the demilitarized zone at the 38th parallel. Our soldiers are serving with our Korean allies to deter aggression from the Communist North. Working with our partners to make tomorrow more prosperous and more secure is what our trip is all about. America is a Pacific nation with good reason to strengthen our ties in this region. Mike Mansfield, our Ambassador to Japan, likes to say, "The next century will be the century of the Pacific." The citizens of our lands may live 5,000 miles apart, we may be different in customs, language, and traditions, and yes, we are often competitors in the world's markets. But what unites us is more importantour love of freedom and our optimism for the future. Japan, Korea, the United States, and our many other friends in the Pacific region are building a better tomorrow. Individual opportunity coupled with hard work and reward produces astonishing results. When an entire society pursues these goals, miracles occur. Japan and Korea are classic examples of nations rising from the ashes of war to set standards of economic prosperity that dazzle the world. There's much talk in the Congress of protecting American jobs, but protectionism is defensive and dangerous. Erecting barriers always invites retaliation, and retaliation is a threat to the one out of every eight American jobs dependent on our exports. At the end of this vicious cycle are higher costs for consumers and lost American jobs, the exact opposite of what we all want. Let's recognize Japanese and Korean efficiency for what it is. If their products are better made and less expensive, then Americans who buy them benefit by receiving quality and value. And that's what the magic of the marketplace is all about. The best course for us to take is to take the offensive and create new jobs through trade, lasting jobs tied to the products and technology of tomorrow. I'm confident American products can compete in world markets if they can enter foreign markets as easily as foreign products can enter ours. Currently they can't. Restrictions and tariffs limit U.S. imports into Japan and Korea. In our meetings I've insisted that reciprocity and open markets are vital to our mutual prosperity. Prime Minister Nakasone and I have agreed on an agenda for progress to reduce and gradually eliminate these barriers. My goal is to help our farmers bring Japanese consumers lower prices for beef, citrus, and other agricultural goods, help our mining, coal, and gas industries export energy resources to a resource-poor Japan, and help our communications industries find new markets for their satellites and other products. I also encouraged the Prime Minister to open his capital markets to more foreign investment. This will increase demand for Japanese yen, helping its price rise in relation to the dollar, thereby making it easier for the Japanese to buy our products and making our products better able to compete in other markets. Economic issues are important, but as I noted, freedom and peace exist in an uneasy climate here. We need to remember that Japan and Korea are key allies. They know what living in the shadow of communism is like. It was a Japanese communications center that tracked the cold, calculating words of that Soviet pilot who gunned down the Korean airliner and 269 innocent victims. Japan contributes about $20,000 for every U.S. soldier stationed here. Both Korea and Japan are committed to help us defend peace, and both are carrying an important share of the military burden. They and we share the same hopes and dreams for our loved ones. We're civilized nations believing in the same virtues of freedom and democracy. The Williamsburg summit this summer brought together representatives of the Atlantic alliance and Japan in a common strategy for economic growth and military security. It demonstrated that our free world, spread across oceans, can join together to protect peace and freedom. On this trip, we and our Pacific friends are taking another important step forward together. We've made our partnership stronger, and that means tomorrow can be better for us, our children, and people everywhere. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Like many of you coming home for Thanksgiving, the Members of Congress adjourned yesterday to return to their districts. They can take some satisfaction from a change in the public's attitude about their performance. According to a Harris survey, confidence in the Congressas well as in other major American institutionshas increased over the past year. There are some good reasons for that, and one of the most important can be summed up in two words: economic growth. Even the most committed pessimists are reluctantly concluding America is enjoying one humdinger of an economic recovery. Pretty soon people will stop talking about economic recovery and begin discussing a new phenomenon we haven't seen since the 1960'sa powerful, long-lasting economic expansion. Because whether we're looking at industrial productionwhich has registered the biggest 12-month increase in 7 yearsor factory usenow at a 2-year highor the drop in unemployment-which has been faster than in the past six recoveriesor inflationwhich remains below 3 percent, the best performance since 1967we're looking at an economy whose engines are humming with open track ahead. From autos to housing and from construction to high technology, growth is strong, confidence is building, and progress is being made. The Congress deserves its share of the credit both for helping us pass some key reforms and for bravely resisting attempts by some to return us to the old days of tax and tax and spend and spend. As most of you know, our bipartisan commission on social security recommended, and the Congress adopted, a landmark bill setting the social security system on a sound financial footing. At the same time, the Congress granted our request for the first major overhaul of the medicare program which provides health insurance protection for retired and disabled Americans. Before our returns [reforms], the medicare laws required that we pay hospitals on a cost-plus basis, footing the bill for whatever cost they wound up incurring in treating medicare patients. So, hospitals had little incentive to hold down costs. Under our new reforms, hospitals will be paid a fixed price to care for each illness. If they control costs, they'll retain sufficient funds to upgrade the quality of their care. We estimate these reforms will save taxpayers over $20 billion in the next 5 years, and the savings can be realized without taking benefits away from anyone. The Congress helped ensure a responsible continuation of revenue sharing, which supports vital economic activities in local communities. I was also pleased to sign into law several key appropriations bills. The spending levels were not as low as we requested, but they were lower than liberal Members wanted, and that would have meant higher deficits. Perhaps the greatest contribution of the Congress was not what it did for us, but what it didn't do to us. The big spenders are still alive and well. And these people spared no effort to take away the third year of your tax cut, to delay indexingthe historic reform that'll protect you from being pushed by inflation into higher tax brackets-and to hit you with huge new tax increases. Well, with the help of responsible Republicans and Democrats, we fought them back and won. And with your help, we'll keep fighting and winning. The record on the domestic side, however, was not all roses. The single, greatest failure of the Congress continues to be its inability to pass a responsible budget to help bring down deficits. By "responsible," I don't mean a budget that raises taxes to accommodate higher spending; I mean a budget that reduces spending to match revenues. You, the people, should not be forced to subsidize their extravagance. They should force themselves to spend within your means. Handcuffing big spenders and stopping them from taxing more of your earnings will be our first order of business come January. I was also distressed that the Senate voted downand the House refused to consider-our bill to provide tuition tax credits to deserving families. It was charged that this bill would have favored the rich. Well, that's a false charge. Those in high tax brackets were not eligible for the tax credits. The bill would have benefited those low- and middle-income people who bear the burden of tuition to send their children to parochial or independent schools and, at the same time, pay their full share of taxes to support the public school system. There would be no loss of revenue to public education, but there would be healthy competition among schools, which would improve the quality of education in both systems. Tuition tax credits and other unfinished business Americans want and need, like prayer in school and enterprise zones, will be pushed again by us as soon as the Congress returns. I believe we're seeing another positive change that's making us feel more confident about our countrya return to bipartisanship in foreign policy. Our administration's highest goal is to help build a safer, more secure and peaceful world. That mission rests upon the twin pillars of deterrence and dialog, upon a military balance together with serious negotiations to resolve differences peacefully. Thanks to bipartisan support, we're doing both. We're restoring America's military strength, and we're pursuing large reductions in nuclear weapons through genuine arms control. Last week I told the Diet, the Japanese legislature, our goal must be the eventual elimination of all such weapons. We've had bipartisan support for our rescue mission in Grenada and for our continued peacekeeping role in Lebanon. And this same spirit of putting country before party helped pass the Caribbean Basin Initiative to stimulate trade, cooperation, and progress with our Caribbean neighbors and a bill to start up Radio Marti, the voice of truth to the imprisoned people of Cuba. I've said it before and I'll say it again, I don't believe for one minute America's best days are behind her. And judging by their confidence, neither do the American people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's a change of management over at the Department of Interior. James Watt has resigned, and Judge William Clark has taken his place. When Jim became Secretary of Interior he told me of the things that needed doing, the things that had to be set straight. He also told me that if and when he did them, he'd probably have to resign in 18 months. Sometimes the one who straightens out a situation uses up so many brownie points he or she is no longer the best one to carry out the duties of day-to-day management. Jim understood this. But he also realized what had to be done, and he did it for more than 30 months, not 18. Now, with the change in management, it's time to take inventory. The Federal Government owns some 730 million acres-about one-third of the total land area of the United States. The Department of Interior has jurisdiction over most of that, including our national parks, wildlife refuges, wilderness lands, wetlands, and coastal barriers. Not included in those 730 million acres are our offshore coastal waters, the Outer Continental Shelf, which is also Interior's responsibility. And I've asked Bill Clark to review policy, personnel, and process at the Department of the Interior. Our national parks are the envy of the world, but in 1981 they were a little frayed at the edges. Since 1978 funds for upkeep and restoration had been cut in half. Jim Watt directed a billion-dollar improvement and restoration program. This 5-year effort is the largest commitment to restoration and improvement of the park system that has ever been made. You, of course, are aware of the economic crunch we've been facing. Yet, even so, Secretary Watt set out to increase protection for fragile and important conservation lands. In 1982 he proposed that 188 areas along our gulf and Atlantic coasts be designated as undeveloped coastal areas. And that proposal became the basis for the historic Coastal Barrier Resources Act. This act covers dunes, marshes, and other coastal formations from Maine to Texaslands that provide irreplaceable feeding and nesting grounds for hundreds of species of waterfowl and fish. And, under Secretary Watt, we've added substantial acreage to our parks and wildlife refuges and some 15,000 acres to our wilderness areas. Interior is also in charge of preserving historic sites and structures. In the economic recovery program we launched in 1981 we gave a 25-percent tax credit for private sector restoration of historic structures. The result has been private investment in historic preservation five times as great as in the preceding 4 years. Secretary Watt has explored other ways to involve the private sector in historic preservation. And one of the efforts we're all proudest of is the campaign to restore Ellis Island and that grand lady in New York Harbor, the Statue of Liberty. This campaign is being led by Lee Iacocca, the chairman of Chrysler, and is being financed almost entirely by private contributions. Preservation of endangered species is also a responsibility of the Department, and the approval and review of plans to bring about recovery of endangered plant and animal species has nearly tripled in the 30 months of Secretary Jim Watt. From the very first, Jim pledged to the Governors of our 50 States that the Department would be a good neighbor, that they would be included in land planning, and that small tracts of isolated Federal lands would be made available to communities needing land for hospitals, schools, parks, or housing. He also stated that isolated small tracts would be sold to farmers and ranchers. An example of what I'm talking about is a strip of land i mile long and only 2 to 20 feet wide that was recently sold. I think you can imagine how these efforts must have erased some problems private landowners had with clouded title to their property. Of course, all this was distorted and led to protests that he was selling national parks and wilderness. What he actually did was sell, in 1982, 55 tracts that totaled only 1,300 acres, and this year, 228 tracts totaling a little over 10,000 acres. The largest parcel was 640 acres; that's i square mile. None of it was park, wildlife refuge, wilderness, or Indian trust lands. They are not for sale. And not one acre of national parkland was leased for oil drilling or mining, contrary to what you may have read or heard. When territories were becoming States, they were promised title to Federal lands within their borders, some lands to be used for public education. But as more and more Western States joined the Union, there began to be a delay; in fact, a permanent delay in turning over these lands. Jim Watt promised the Governors that if they'd identify lands they had a right to claim under their statehood acts, we'd make the Federal Government honest. The Governors responded, and as a result, by the end of this year more land will have been delivered to the States to support their school systems than at any time since 1969. Changes have been made in the management of forest lands which are eligible for multiple use. Those lands will provide lumber on a sustained-yield basis. This will benefit Americans who cherish the dream of owning their own home. We've made giant strides in implementing a national water policy which recognizes State primacy in managing water resources. People must be a part of our planning, and people need a reliable, safe drinking water supply, water for generating power, and water for irrigation. Since I've mentioned energy, let me touch on that for a minute. It's estimated that 85 percent of the fuel we need to keep the wheels of industry turning is on Federal-owned property, including the Outer Continental Shelf. Efforts to increase the supply of energy have been carried out in full compliance with environmental stipulations. We can and will have an increased energy supply with an enhanced environment. James G. Watt has served this nation well. And I'm sure William Clark will do the same. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This is a very special time of year for us, a time for family reunions and for celebrating together the blessings of God and the promises He has given us. From Thanksgiving to Hanukkah, which our Jewish community is now celebrating, to Christmas in 3 weeks' time, this is a season of hope and of love. Certainly one of the greatest blessings for people everywhere is the family itself. The American Family Institute recently dedicated its book of essays, "The Family in the Modern World," to Maria Victoria Walesa, daughter of Danuta and Lech Walesa, to whose christening came 7,000 Poles expressing their belief that the family remains the foundation of freedom. And, of course, they're right. It's in the family where we learn to think for ourselves, care for others, and acquire the values of self-reliance, integrity, responsibility, and compassion. Families stand at the center of society, so building our future must begin by preserving family values. Tragically, too many in Washington has been asking us to swallow a whopper: namely, that bigger government is the greatest force for fairness and progress. But this so-called solution has given most of us a bad case of financial indigestion. How can families survive when big government's powers to tax, inflate, and regulate absorb their wealth, usurp their rights, and crush their spirit? Was there compassion for a working family in 21 1/2- percent interest rates, 12 1/2-percent inflation, and taxes soaring out of sight? Consider the cost of childrearing. It now takes $85,000 to raise a child to age 18, and family incomes haven't kept up. During the 1970's real wages actually declined over 2 percent. Consider taxes. In 1948 the tax on the average two-child family was just $9. Today it is $2,900. As economic and social pressures have increased, the bonds that bind families together have come under strain. For example, three times as many families are headed by single parents today as in 1960. Many single parents make heroic sacrifices and deserve all our support. But there is no question that many well-intentioned Great Society-type programs contributed to family breakups, welfare dependency, and a large increase in births out of wedlock. In the 1970's the number of single mothers rose from 8 to 13 percent among whites and from 31 to a tragic 47 percent among blacks. Too often their children grow up poor, malnourished, and lacking in motivation. It's a path to social and health problems, low school performance, unemployment, and delinquency. If we strengthen families, we'll help reduce poverty and the whole range of other social problems. We can begin by reducing the economic burdens of inflation and taxes, and we're doing this. Since 1980 inflation has been chopped by three-fourths. Taxes have been cut for every family that earns a living, and we've increased the tax credit for child care. Yesterday we learned that our growing economy reduced unemployment to 8.2 percent last month. The payroll employment figure went up by 370,000 jobs. At the same time, new policies are helping our neediest families move from dependence to independence. Our new job training law will train over a million needy and unemployed Americans each year for productive jobs. I should add that our enterprise zones proposal would stimulate new businesses, bringing jobs and hope to some of the most destitute areas of the country. The Senate has adopted this proposal. But after 2 years of delay, the House Democratic leadership only recently agreed to hold its first hearing on the legislation. This is a jobs bill America needs. And come January, we expect action. We're moving forward on many other fronts. We've made prevention of drug abuse among youth a top priority. We'll soon announce a national missing children's center to help find and rescue children who've been abducted and exploited. We're working with States and local communities to increase the adoption of special-needs children. More children with permanent homes mean fewer children with permanent problems. We're also stiffening the enforcement of child support from absent parents. And we're trying hard to improve education through more discipline, a return to the basics, and through reforms like tuition tax credits to help hard-working parents. In coming months, we'll propose new ways to help families stay together, remain independent, and cope with the pressures of modern life. A cornerstone of our efforts must be assisting families to support themselves. As Franklin Roosevelt said almost 50 years ago, "Self-help and self-control are the essence of the American tradition." In Washington everyone looks out for special interest groups. Well, I think families are pretty special. And with your help, we'll continue looking out for their interests. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about the deep desire we all share to bring peace to Lebanon. These past several weeks have brought bitter tragedy and sorrow to all of us. The loss of even one of our splendid young Americans is an enormous price to pay. The number of dead and wounded is a terrible burden of grief for all Americans. It's unimaginably more so for the families who have lost a father, husband, a son, or a brother. Their deaths are testimony to the savage hatreds and greedy ambitions which have claimed so many innocent Lebanese lives. The human toll in Lebanon is staggering. Lebanon's losses since 1975 would be comparable to the United States losing 10 million of its citizens. What conceivable reason can there be for this wanton death and destruction? Lebanon's suffering began long before a single marine arrived. In the early 1970's many thousands of Palestinians entered Lebanon. Lebanon's fragile political consensus collapsed, and a savage civil war broke out. The Palestinians also had a military, the armed PLO. Trained in terrorist tactics by Soviet-bloc nations and Libya, the PLO joined the civil war and attacked Israeli targets, villages and schools across the border between Lebanon and Israel. In the midst of all this, Syria was asked to intervene and stop the civil war. In the process, it occupied a large part of Lebanon. However, Syria did nothing to control terrorism against Israel's northern border. Israel decided to neutralize the PLO and, in June 1982, mounted a full-scale invasion across the border. This resulted in another major round of fighting between Syria, the PLO, and Israel. Shelling and bombing pounded Beirut. Thousands more died. We negotiated a cease-fire and then joined the multinational force at the request of the Lebanese Government to make possible the peaceful separation of the forces. This is the second time in 25 years that we have come to support the Lebanese Government in restoring peace. In 1958 President Eisenhower used a bipartisan congressional resolution to send 8,000 American soldiers and marines to Lebanon. When order was restored, our military came home. But in 1958 there were no occupying foreign armies, and there was no Soviet presence in Syria. Today, there are more than 7,000 Soviet military advisers and technicians. In September 1982 I offered a plan to bring peace to the region. It called for a just solution to the Palestinian problem as well as a reasonable settlement of issues between the Arab States and Israel. Success in Lebanon is central to sustaining the broader peace process. We have vital interests in the Middle East which depend on peace and stability in that region. Indeed, the entire world has vital interests there. The region is central to the economic vitality of the Western World. If we fail in Lebanon, what happens to the prospects for peace, not just in Lebanon but between Israel and her neighbors and in the entire Middle East? Once internal stability is established and withdrawal of all foreign forces is assured, the marines will leave. But because we care about human values for ourselves, so must we be concerned when freedom, justice, and liberty are abused elsewhere. That's the moral basis which brought our marines to Lebanon. We have acted with great restraint despite repeated provocations and murderous attacks. Our reconnaissance flights have only one purpose, and the Syrians know it: to give the greatest possible protection to our troops. We will continue to do whatever is needed to ensure the safety of our forces and our reconnaissance flights. The peace process is slow and painful, but there is progress which would not have been possible without the multinational force. Last May with our help the Governments of Lebanon and Israel negotiated an agreement providing for the withdrawal of Israeli forces. In September when the Israelis pulled back their forces from the Shuf Mountains near Beirut, Lebanese attempts to extend their authority into this area were met by violent opposition from forces supported by Syria. We will redouble our diplomatic efforts to promote reconciliation and achieve withdrawal of all foreign forces. At a recent meeting in Geneva all the Lebanese parties agreed to recognize the present government as the legitimate representative of the Lebanese people. Talks have begun to broaden the base of the government and to satisfy the legitimate grievances of all the people. My special envoy, Ambassador Don Rumsfeld, has returned to the region and will continue trying to move the peace process forward on all fronts. Lebanon's agony must end. Today is the 35th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Lebanese people are struggling for their human rights. We call upon everyone involved to give that birthright back to the Lebanese. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This is the season when we appreciate our families and friends and spend time looking for just the right gifts for them. We arrange our homes with decorations and make an effort to prepare for special moments. Yet, during these holiday festivities our loved ones are in danger. That's why I want to ask you today for your help. Unless all of us unite to take action, thousands of our citizens, perhaps a member of your own family, will suffer terrible deaths. I wish I were overstating the case, but I'm not. And there are tens of thousands of parents who have lost children. Their heartaches and tears are testament to the magnitude of the threat that hangs over us. If I were alerting you about a foreign power brutally murdering tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, a cry for bold action would sweep our country. Well, I'm not referring to a foreign enemy; I'm talking about drunk drivers. Due to the irresponsible use of alcohol, 25,000 Americansmen, women, and children-are killed each year. The statistics are overwhelming. We've lost more than a quarter of a million of our countrymen to drunk drivers in the last 10 years. That's 500 every week, 70 every day, one every 20 minutes. Every year, nearly 700,000 people are injured in alcohol-related crashes. Every one of these casualties is someone's son or daughter, husband or wife, mother, father, or friend. The personal tragedies behind the statistics are enough to break your heart. A few days ago, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Price of Johnson City, Tennessee, joined me at the White House to proclaim this week National Drunk and Drugged Driving Awareness Week. It was fitting they be here. About 2 1/2 years ago, their son Timothy was killed by a drunk driver. Then, just a year ago, their daughter Elizabeth was killed when a drunk driver veered onto her side of the road. All of us can share the grief of these parents who lost two of their children in separate incidents. But now is not just the time for sympathy; now is the time to act. The Prices were at the White House when I officially received the report of our Commission on Drunk Driving. Commission Chairman John Volpe and the other members took their jobs seriously, and they've made some suggestions you ought to know about. Right off the bat, we should understand there are no magic solutions. It'll take a long-term commitment, coming at the problem from different directions. The first step, according to the Commission, is making sure that our friends and neighborsas well as the people in the city halls and in the State legislaturesfully comprehend what we're facing. Secretary of Transportation Elizabeth Dole has been speaking tirelessly around the country on this issue. Just this week, the Licensed Beverage Information Council, the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, and Secretary Dole joined in unveiling this year's Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk campaign to enlist all of us to protect our friends from themselves. This is an excellent example of the private sector and government working together to attack a serious problem. We must change the lax attitude about driving when there's even a question about sobriety. We'll need to be stern at times, but putting our foot down can save someone's life. The Commission found out that some of our laws and law enforcement are lax, as well. Some drunks have been arrested more than once, but they're still out there on the highways. What greater travesty could there be than knowing your loved one was killed by an individual already convicted of drunk driving? We must make it harder on the firsttimers. And we must make sure that repeat offenders are taken off the road. The Commission made numerous, specific recommendations, and we're moving forward on them. But in a free society such as ours, with the separation of powers between Federal, State, and local governments, it will take all of us working together. Much of the credit for focusing public attention goes to the grassroots campaign of organizations like MADD, Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, and RID, Remove Intoxicated Drivers. The activists in these organizations, many of whom have lost loved ones to drunk drivers, have helped strengthen laws and law enforcement at the State and local level. And in those States that have toughened their laws and their enforcement, lives have been saved. The automobile has always been close to the hearts of Americans. We've valued our mobility as a precious freedom, and individual ownership of a ear has provided greater mobility to more people than ever before. If there's one lesson we've learned in the last 200 years, it is that with freedom must come responsibility. Some of our citizens have been acting irresponsibly. Drinking and driving has caused the death of many innocent people. It is up to us to put a stop to it, not in a spirit of vengeance but in the spirit of love. I pray that each of you will have a safe and happy holiday. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Like so many of your homes, the White House is brimming with greens, colorful decorations, and a tree trimmed and ready for Christmas day. And when Nancy and I look out from our upstairs windows, we can see the National Christmas Tree standing in majestic beauty. Its lights fill the air with a spirit of love, hope, and joy from the heart of America. I shared that spirit recently when a young girl named Amy Benham helped me light our national tree. Amy had said that the tree that lights up our country must be seen all the way to heaven. And she said that her wish was to help me turn on its lights. Well, Amy's wish came true. But the greatest gift was mine, because I saw her eyes light up with hope and joy just as brightly as the lights on our national tree. And I'm sure they were both seen all the way to heaven, and they made the angels sing. Christmas is a time for children, and rightly so. We celebrate the birthday of the Prince of Peace who came as a babe in a manger. Some celebrate Christmas as the birthday of a great teacher and philosopher. But to other millions of us, Jesus is much more. He is divine, living assurance that God so loved the world He gave us His only begotten Son so that by believing in Him and learning to love each other we could one day be together in paradise. It's been said that all the kings who ever reigned, that all the parliaments that ever sat have not done as much to advance the cause of peace on Earth and good will to men as the man from Galilee, Jesus of Nazareth. Christmas is also a time to remember the treasures of our own history. We remember one Christmas in particular, 1776, our first year as a nation. The Revolutionary War had been going badly. But George Washington's faith, courage, and leadership would turn the tide of history our way. On Christmas night he led a band of ragged soldiers across the Delaware River through driving snow to a victory that saved the cause of independence. It's said that their route of march was stained by bloody footprints, but their spirit never faltered and their will could not be crushed. The image of George Washington kneeling in prayer in the snow is one of the most famous in American history. He personified a people who knew it was not enough to depend on their own courage and goodness; they must also seek help from God, their Father and Preserver. In a few hours, families and friends across America will join together in caroling parties and Christmas Eve services. Together, we'll renew that spirit of faith, peace, and giving which has always marked the character of our people. In our moments of quiet reflection I know we will remember our fellow citizens who may be lonely and in need tonight. "Is the Christmas spirit still alive?" some ask. Well, you bet it is. Being Americans, we open our hearts to neighbors less fortunate. We try to protect them from hunger and cold. And we reach out in so many waysfrom toys-for-tots drives across the country, to good will by the Salvation Army, to American Red Cross efforts which provide food, shelter, and Christmas cheer from Atlanta to Seattle. Churches are so generous it's impossible to keep track. One example: Reverend Bill Singles' Presbyterian Meeting House in nearby Alexandria, Virginia, is simultaneously sponsoring hot meals on wheels programs, making and delivering hundreds of sandwiches and box loads of clothes, while visiting local hospitals and sending postcards to shut-ins and religious dissidents abroad. Let us remember the families who maintain a watch for their missing in action. And, yes, let us remember all those who are persecuted inside the Soviet blocnot because they commit a crime, but because they love God in their hearts and want the freedom to celebrate Hanukkah or worship the Christ Child. And because faith for us is not an empty word, we invoke the power of prayer to spread the spirit of peace. We ask protection for our soldiers who are guarding peace tonightfrom frigid outposts in Alaska and the Korean demilitarized zone to the shores of Lebanon. One Lebanese mother told us that her little girl had only attended school 2 of the last 8 years. Now, she said, because of our presence there her daughter can live a normal life. With patience and firmness we can help bring peace to that strife-torn region and make our own lives more secure. The Christmas spirit of peace, hope, and love is the spirit Americans carry with them all year round, everywhere we go. As long as we do, we need never be afraid, because trusting in God is the one sure answer to all the problems we face. Till next week, thanks for listening, God bless you, and Merry Christmas.\par
My fellow Americans: New Year's Eve is a time for looking back on the year past, and in a moment, I want to talk about all that 1983 meant to America. But first I want to mention the topic of my radio talk 2 weeks agodrunk driving. A drunk or drugged person at the wheel of a car isn't a driver, that person is a machine of destruction. So, let's enjoy all the wonderful celebrations that go with New Year's Eve, but, please, when we drive, let's drive sober. Nineteen eighty-three was the 207th year for our Grand Old Republic. Though the year had its measure of hardship and even tragedy, it was a time when we Americans acted with courage, self-confidence, and vigor. We had reason to feel glad. America was on the mend. And as our economy regained strength, we watched the progress of a sparkling recoveryone of the strongest recoveries in 20 years. I said from the beginning it would take time for our economic program to work. You can't cure 25 years of failed economic policies overnight. And, yes, we had some hard months at first. But 1983 saw our patience pay off as our program took hold. On this New Year's Eve, the prime interest rate is 11 percent, about half of what it was when we took office. Inflation for 1983 is running at only 3.2 percent, about a quarter of what it was just 3 years ago. Housing starts are running 60 percent higher than on this day last year. Nineteen eighty-three saw the stock market reach new highs as it pumped vast new funds into the economy and raised the value of pension funds where millions of working Americans have their savings. During 1982, American manufacturers sold 5.8 million new cars. This year, they've sold 6.7 million. As our basic industries and agriculture gain new strength, American ingenuity and enterprise are creating whole new industriesindustries like robotics and bioengineering. Just a few years ago, home computers were unheard of. By the end of 1982, American companies had sold some 2 1/2 million home computers. This year, the figure is expected to climb to 7 1/2 million. This is one of the seasons when we Americans fly the most, to visit family and friends, because there's nothing like being home for the holidays. Well, the deregulation of the airline industry has increased competition and helped push fares down. And deregulation of banking is helping millions. In 1983, for the first time, everyday savers and small businesses received marked interest rates, earning 3 1/2 billion dollars in additional income. The best news of all: On New Year's Eve 1982, 100.8 million Americans had jobs. But today, the figure has climbed by 3.6 million, an all-time high for our nation. All this means that in 1983 it was easier to pay bills, put children through college, buy homes, or borrow the money to start a new business than it had been in many years. Once again, the American economy has begun to reward fresh ideas and good, hard work. Just as 1983 saw our economy recovering, it saw a new sense of purpose in our Armed Forces and foreign policy. In the military, morale has soared. Some pundits used to claim we could only attract recruits when our economy was weak. But now, even with a strong economy and growing opportunities in civilian life, our Armed Forces are attracting more and better qualified recruits than ever. There's one statistic that shows just how dramatic the turnaround has been. If 1979 Air Force retention rates had continued, three out of four pilots would have left the service after their first tours. In 1983, better than three out of four stayed in. Morale has improved partly because we've given our men and women in uniform better pay and better equipment. But I just have to believe the courage of our soldiers and marines in Lebanon and Grenada has a lot to do with it. And, as we celebrate the New Year, I wonder whether you would all join Nancy and me in setting aside a moment to remember those who, in 1983, gave their lives in the cause of freedom and to pray for those brave young men spending this day so far from home. In foreign policy, this year we've given firm support to democratic leadership in Central America. In Grenada we set a nation free. In Asia, our trip to Japan and Korea further strengthened our partnership with those nations. In Europe, 1983 saw the NATO alliance pass through harsh trials, but the alliance has emerged more firmly united than evermore ardent in the cause of freedom and peace, more dedicated to the paths of deterrence and dialog. In Lebanon, the road to peace has proven long and hard, but there has been progress that would have been impossible without our marines and the other troops in the multinational peacekeeping force. Representatives of all Lebanese factions agreed in Geneva to recognize the government of President Amin Gemayel. And talks have begun that will broaden the government's base. It isn't easy. Progress is painfully slow, but progress is being made. Nineteen eighty-three was a good year for America. If all of us keep pulling together, we can make 1984 even better. Happy New Year and, until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans: This is my first radio talk in 1984, so Happy New Year. My prayer for you this new year is that you and your families will prosper in health and happiness. When I spoke to you last Saturday, on New Year's Eve, I made one request to everyone: When we drive, let's drive sober. Well, I was delighted to hear some very heartening news from Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole. Last New Year's weekend was the safest on our highways in 35 years. Our efforts to keep drunk, violent drivers off the road are beginning to show progress. Today I want to talk about a subject which also deals with violence and is on our minds as the holidays end and our children go back to schoolthe problem of classroom discipline. The sad truth is, many classrooms across the country are not temples of learning, teaching the lessons of good will, civility, and wisdom important to the whole fabric of American life; many schools are filled with rude, unruly behavior, and even violence. According to a 1978 report by the National Institute of Education, each month 3 million secondary school children were victims of in-school crime. I don't mean ordinary high jinks; I mean crime. Each month some 2.5 million students were the victims of robberies and thefts, and more than 250,000 students suffered physical attacks. In large cities, the problem was so bad that almost 8 percent of urban junior and senior high school students missed at least 1 day in the classroom per month because they were afraid to go to school. Well, now, maybe you're thinking that was back in 1978. Well, a study released in 1983 indicates this 1978 report probably understates the problem today. Just as school violence affects our sons and daughters, it also affects their teachers. That 1978 National Institute of Education study found that each month some 6,000 teachers were robbed, about 125,000 a month were threatened with physical harm, and at least 1,000 teachers each month were assaulted with violence so severe they required medical care. One psychiatrist who treats teachers says many of them suffer symptoms identical to those of World War I shell shock victims. It's that bad. Today American children need good education more than ever. But we can't get learning back into our schools until we get the crime and violence out. It's not a question of anyone asking for a police state. It's just that, as Albert Shanker of the American Federation of Teachers put it, "We're not going to get people interested in English or mathematics or social studies and languages, unless we solve discipline problems and take out of our schools those students who prevent teachers from teaching." Today I'm asking Americans to renew our commitment to school discipline. Here at the national level, we're directing the Federal Government to do all it can to help parents, teachers, and administrators restore order to their classroom. The Department of Education will study ways to prevent school violence, publicize examples of effective school discipline, continue its joint project with the National Institute of Justice to find better ways for localities to use their resources to prevent school crime. The Department of Justice will establish a National School Safety Center. This center will publish handbooks informing teachers and other officials of their legal rights in dealing with disruptive students and put together a computerized national clearinghouse for school safety resources. I've also directed the Justice Department to file court briefs to help school administrators enforce discipline. But despite the importance of these efforts, we can't make progress without help from superintendents and principals, teachers, parents, and students themselves. I wish I could tell you all the stories I've heard of schools that have been turned around by determined local efforts. At Southwestern High in Detroit, once one of the city's most violent schools, firm discipline has raised the attendance rate from 53 to almost 87 percent. In my home State of California at Sacramento's El Camino High, a discipline compact between parents and the school has helped achievement levels soar. And in the Watts section of Los Angeles, George Washington Preparatory High School recently established a policy of strict discipline with impressive results. Just 5 years ago, only 43 percent of the school's seniors expressed an interest in going to college. Well, last year, 80 percent of the seniors did go to college. So, please, if you have discipline problems at your school, find out what you can do to help. By working together we can restore good order to America's classrooms and give our sons and daughters the education they deserve. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last April 1 addressed a joint session of the Congress and asked for bipartisan cooperation on behalf of our policies to protect liberty and democracy in Central America. Shortly after that speech, the late Senator Henry Jackson encouraged the appointment of a blue-ribbon commission to chart a course for democracy, economic improvement, and peace in Central America. I appointed 12 distinguished Americans to the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America and asked former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to serve as its Chairman. This week the members of that group delivered to me their report on the crisis confronting our Latin neighbors. I believe the Commission has rendered an important service to all Americansall of us from pole to pole in this Western Hemisphere. The members of this Commission represented both political parties and a wide cross section of our country. They reached agreement on some very key points. They agreed that the crisis is serious and our response must include support for democratic development, improved living conditions, and security assistance. They agreed that the United States has a vital interest in preventing a Communist Central America because if our own borders are threatened, then our ability to meet our commitments to protect peace elsewhere in the worldin Europe, the Middle East, and Asiawould be significantly weakened. The members also agreed that Nicaragua's regime has violated its promise to restore democracy. And they warned that Nicaragua's export of subversion could undermine the stability of neighboring countries, producing waves of refugeesperhaps millions of themmany of whom would seek entry into the United States. The Commission concluded, "The crisis is on our doorstep." The report of this distinguished body presents no quick fix to ease the pain and suffering of tomorrow. There is none. Nor can we alone bring peace to this or any other part of the world. As the report notes, solutions to Central American problems must primarily be the work of Central Americans. But we can and must help, because it is in our interest to do so and because it's morally the right thing to do. The Commission did present us positive recommendations to support democratic development, improve human rights, and bring the long-sought dream for peace to this troubled region so close to home. The recommendations reinforce the spirit of the administration's policies that help to our neighbors should be primarily economic and humanitarian. And since this report does present a bipartisan consensus, I will send to the Congress when it reconvenes a comprehensive plan for achieving the objectives set forth by the Commission. I urge the Members of Congress to respond with the same bipartisan spirit that guided the Commission in its work. This Central American democracy, peace, and recovery initiative, which I call the Jackson plan, will be designed to bring democracy, peace, and prosperity to Central America. It won't be easy, but it can be done. I believe peace is worth the price. There may be an argument for doing much and, perhaps, an argument for doing nothing. But there is no valid argument for doing too little. Well, I opt for doing enoughenough to protect our own security and enough to improve the lives of our neighbors so that they can vote with ballots instead of bullets. The Government of Nicaragua must also understand this. They cannot threaten their peaceful neighbors, export subversion, and deny basic human freedom to their own people as the Commission has so rightly observed. Now, you may have heard that there's a controversy between the administration and the Congress over human rights and military aid to beleaguered El Salvador. Well, I agree completely with the objective of improving prospects for democracy and human rights in El Salvador. I am also committed to preventing Cuban and Nicaraguan supported guerrillas from violently overthrowing El Salvador's elected government and others in the region; so is the bipartisan Commission; so, too, I believe, is our Congress. Our administration will continue to work closely with the Congress in achieving these common goals. As we move to implement the recommendations of the bipartisan Commission, we will be offering the promise of a better tomorrow in Central America. But we must oppose those who do not abide by the norms of civilized behavior, whether they be of the extreme right or extreme left. Senator Henry Jackson would have had it so. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's that time again when we're deluged by a blizzard of economic facts, figures, and predictions. I hope you'll keep in mind that economic forecasting is far from a perfect science. If recent history is any guide, the experts have some explaining to do about what they told us had to happen but never did. When our economic program first began in late 1981, many of the doom-criers had warned it would push inflation and interest rates through the roof. It hasn't quite worked out that way. We inherited 12.4-percent inflation in 1980; today it's 3.2. And the prime interest rate has dropped from over 21 percent to 11 percent. Last year, those pessimists were back again. They told us bad times would go on and on and on. One forecaster said we were on the brink of a major collapse. Another one of Wall Street's favorites made headlines when he said the recovery would be "one of the weakest on record." I'm not trying to belabor a point, but these predictions just aren't panning out. Far from being weak, this recovery has been one of the strongest since the 1960's. More people are on the job than ever before in our history. From solid growth in housing to new frontiers in high technology, from a healthy recovery in real wages to a big improvement in productivity, and from record increases in venture capital to new highs in the stock market, America is moving forward, getting stronger, and confounding everyone who said it can't be done. Well, like "The Little Engine That Could," it is being done. I only wish this would convince the naysayers to let up a little, but they don't seem willing. This year we're hearing a new variation of their gloomy refrain, not about inflation or interest rates taking off, not about the recovery that won't happen, but about the recovery that can't last. Government deficits, we're told, will kill the recovery by draining capital needed by business to keep the economy expanding. Well, I happen to believe those who underestimated the strength of this recovery may be wrong about the size of future deficits, too. But let's be clear: The deficits do matter. The problem is they were created by a pattern of overspending that began 50 years ago and that's been hard to break. We must bring deficits down and work toward a balanced budget. The question is: How? By spending cuts and economic growth or by tax increases? I don't think you need to be an economist to understand the evidence. We don't face large deficits because you're not taxed enough; we face those deficits because government spends too much. Even with our tax reductions now in place, families are still being taxed at near record peacetime levels. Yet, as fast as taxes have gone up, spending has gone up even faster. In the past, raising taxes simply encouraged government to spend more. And since people had less money in their pockets to spend or save, economic growth was hurt. So fewer people were employed and able to pay taxes. Deficits went up, not down. The World Bank has released a study showing that countries with lower tax burdens have consistently enjoyed higher growth rates. Japan, where I recently visited, has had the lowest tax burden and the highest growth rates of all the developed nations. We must try harder to reduce spending. Back in 1967, as Governor of California, I asked a group of business executives to survey the State bureaucracy and identify potential savings. They made about 2,000 recommendations, and we implemented most of them. Their work helped return fiscal integrity to a State that had been spending a million dollars a day it didn't have. Now, we're trying the same approach in Washington, because believe me, there's plenty of fat to cut. The Grace commission, comprised of nearly 2,000 leaders from private industry, has just presented us a blueprint for reducing wasteful spending. The commission recommended that the Federal Government upgrade its computer systems. This could save $4 billion. Tracking certain incorrect pension payments could save $4 billion. These are but two of some 2,500 examples that could save taxpayers billions and billions of dollars. And, as the late Senator Everett Dirksen said, "A billion here, a billion therepretty soon you're talking about real money." We should prepare for strong protests from Washington-based representatives of the many special interest groups. They will fear that implementing such management reforms means cuts for their favorite programs. What we're really talking about is doing things more efficiently without hurting people in need and without compromising America's security. Yes, we have a deficit problem. But let's be sensible about it. When warnings about deficits seem to be hysterical, just remember the lessons of recent history. Predictions are often wrong. Some may be using predictions to mask their favorite pastime-raising your taxes; others may underestimate our ability to cut government down to size over time. Like death and taxes, the doom-criers will always be with us. And they'll always be wrong about America until they realize progress begins with trusting the people. With your support, we'll make this year's batch of pessimists as wrong as last year's. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Three days ago in my State of the Union Message I spoke to you about taking on the challenge of America's next frontier, space, as one of four great goals for the eighties. Well, today I'd like to tell you more about that challenge, about how we can advance America's leadership in space through the end of this century and well into the next, and how, by reaching for exciting goals in space, we'll serve the cause of peace and create a better life for all of us here on Earth. For a quarter of a century, we've moved steadily forward in the exploration and utilization of space, extending our knowledge of our solar system, our galaxy, and our universe. The space shuttle, our most recent advance in space technology, gives us routine access to space. Just as the Yankee Clipper ships of the last century symbolized American vitality, our space shuttles today capture the optimistic spirit of our times. Our many achievements have proven that we can do much in space and that there's much more we must do to ensure that America lives up to her descriptiona land of hope and opportunity. Our space goals will chart a path of progress toward creating a better life for all people who seek freedom, prosperity, and security. Our approach to space has three elements. Let me discuss each of them briefly. The first is a commitment to build a permanently manned space station to be in orbit around the Earth within a decade. It will be a base for many kinds of scientific, commercial, and industrial activities and a steppingstone for further goals. Scientists from NASA, universities, and private industry will do research in and around the space stationresearch that's only possible in the zero-gravity and vacuum of space. As needed, private industry will fund expansions of the NASA facility where companies can manufacture new products and provide new services. But most importantly, like every step forward, a space station will not be an end in itself but a doorway to even greater progress in the future. In this case, a space station will open up new opportunities for expanding human commerce and learning and provide a base for further exploration of that magnificent and endless frontier of space. International cooperation, the second element of our plan, has long been a guiding principle of the United States space program. The tricentennial of the first German immigration to America was celebrated last year with a joint space effort. Just as our friends were asked to join us in the shuttle program, our friends and allies will be invited to join with us in the space station project. The third goal of our space strategy will be to encourage American industry to move quickly and decisively into space. Obstacles to private sector space activities will be removed, and we'll take appropriate steps to spur private enterprise in space. We expect space-related investments to grow quickly in future years, creating many new jobs and greater prosperity for all Americans. Companies interested in putting payloads into space, for example, should have ready access to private sector launch services. Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole will work to stimulate the private sector investment in commercial, unmanned space boosters. We need a thriving, commercial launch industry. NASA, along with other departments and agencies, will be taking a number of initiatives to promote private sector investment to ensure our lead over current and potential foreign competitors. So, we're going to bring into play America's greatest assetthe vitality of our free enterprise system. We've always prided ourselves on the pioneer spirit that built America. Well, that spirit is a key to our future as well as our past. Once again, we're on a frontier. Our willingness to accept this challenge will reflect whether America's men and women today have the same bold vision, the same courage and indomitable spirit that made us a great nation. The peaceful use of space promises great benefits to all mankind. It opens vast new opportunities for our industry and ingenuity. The only limits we have are those of our own courage and imagination. When President John Kennedy challenged America to go to the Moon, he said it would not be one person going but an entire nation putting him there. Our space program has done so much to bring us together because it gives us the opportunity to be the kind of nation we want to be, the kind of nation we must always bedreaming, daring, and creating. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As you know, last Sunday I announced my candidacy for reelection to this office. I asked for your support to help finish what we began 3 years agogetting government spending firmly under control, encouraging growth in our economy, and strengthening peace so we can provide opportunities for the liberty and happiness of our citizens today and for millions still unborn. I wasn't surprised that my announcement set off some pretty sharp rhetoric from the other side, but I'd like to think that with some good will and common sense Republicans and Democrats could rise above election-year politics for the good of our country. Certainly there are important areas-and three come immediately to mind-where we could and should be working together. For example, I believe there's basis for agreement on a down payment on projected budget deficits. I think we could reduce projected deficits by at least $100 billion over the next 3 years. So, frankly, I was a bit puzzled why those new converts to concern about looming deficits held back on joining a bipartisan working group. Now, I understand they will be prepared to meet next week. I urge them to approach the negotiations in the same spirit as we will. Let's try to put the partisan issues aside. I repeat that all issues can be on the table for discussion. But, obviously, we cannot compromise the principles of our tax program without compromising our economic recovery and America's future. I simply can't agree to increase taxes on families already pinching pennies to pay their bills. We want to reduce the deficit, not the recovery. And it would be foolhardy, indeed, to compromise America's defense rebuilding program just as we're beginning to restore the credibility that was so recklessly squandered. Yet this does not mean that there aren't areas in which to find bipartisan agreement. We could focus on the less contentious spending cuts still pending before the Congress. These could be combined with measures to close certain tax loopholes that the Treasury Department has indicated it believes worthy of support. If we focus on what we might agree on, we can get something done for the people. And the Grace commission has come up with some 2,500 recommendations for reducing wasteful government spending. We should examine them together. Uniting to promote democracy, peace, and prosperity in the troubled region of Central America is a second area where Republicans and Democrats should work together. Last July 1 appointed 12 distinguished Americans to the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America and asked former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to serve as its Chairman. Three weeks ago, the members of that Commission delivered to me their report on the crisis confronting our Latin neighbors. Their recommendations are the basis of legislation that I will soon present to the Congress. I should point out that the late Senator Henry Jackson first proposed the idea of the Bipartisan Commission on Central America, and he served until his death as one of its senior counselors. All his life, Scoop said what he believed and stuck to it. He believed in freedom, dignity for the individual, and a strong America. And he believed Republicans and Democrats should leave politics at the water's edge on important questions of national security. Senator Jackson's wisdom is the guiding spirit of our legislation. It offers a balance of political, economic, diplomatic, and security initiatives that can bring stability and a better life to our neighbors and ultimately greater security to our own country. This plan deserves the bipartisan support of the Congress. We have a responsibility to act. Continued support for the peace process in the Middle East is a third critical area where Republicans and Democrats must rise above politics. We're working closely with Lebanon's President Gemayel to find a political solution. Support for his government is broadening among the different groups. And just as important, our efforts to strengthen the Lebanese Army and its ability to keep the peace are making sure and steady progress. Yes, the situation in Lebanon is difficult, frustrating, and dangerous. But that is no reason to turn our backs on friends and to cut and run. If we do, we'll be sending one signal to terrorists everywhere: They can gain by waging war against innocent people. The men and women who patrol our streets here at home also face great dangers every day. But the greatest danger of all would be to yank those police officers off the streets and to leave our neighborhoods and families at the mercy of criminals. If we're to be secure in our homes and in the world, we must stand together against those who threaten us. This is a time for unity, not partisan politics. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to speak to you about a subject always on the minds of Americans, but of particular interest today in view of the death of Soviet leader Yuriy Andropov: our relations with the Soviet Union. Changes of leadership have not happened often in the Soviet Union. Yuriy Andropov was only the sixth Communist Party leader in the 66 years since the Russian Revolution. In recent months, he'd been totally absent from public view, so his death did not come as a shock to the world. Nevertheless, the importance of the U.S.-Soviet relationship makes his passing away a time for reflection on where that relationship is heading. The changes in Moscow are an opportunity for both nations to examine closely the current state of our relations and to think about the future. We know that our relationship is not what we would like it to be. We've made no secret of our views as to the reasons why. What is needed now is for both sides to sit down and find ways of solving some of the problems that divide us. In expressing my condolences to Mr. Andropov's family and to the Soviet Government, I emphasized once again America's desire for genuine cooperation between our two countries. Together we can help make the world a better, more peaceful place. This was also the message for the Soviet people in my address on Soviet-American relations last month. In that speech, as in my private communications with the late Chairman Andropov, I stressed our commitment to a serious and intensive dialog with the Soviet Union, one aimed at building a more constructive U.S.-Soviet relationship. This commitment remains firm, and Vice President Bush will lead our delegation to Moscow for Mr. Andropov's funeral. He will be accompanied by Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker and our Ambassador in Moscow, Arthur Hartman. I hope there will be an opportunity for the Vice President to meet with the new General Secretary. As we engage in discussions with Soviet leaders, we recognize the fundamental differences in our values and in our perspectives on many international issues. We must be realistic and not expect that these differences can be wished away. But realism should also remind us that our two peoples share common bonds and interests. We are both relatively young nations with rich ethnic traditions and a pioneer philosophy. We have both experienced the terrible trauma of war. We have fought side by side in the victory over Nazi Germany. And while our governments have very different views, our sons and daughters have never fought each other. We must make sure they never do. Avoiding war and reducing arms is a starting point in our relationship with the Soviet Union, but we seek to accomplish more. With a good-faith effort on both sides, I believe the United States and the Soviet Union could begin rising above the mistrust and ill will that cloud our relations. We could establish a basis for greater mutual understanding and constructive cooperation, and there's no better time to make that good-faith effort than now. At this time of transition in the Soviet Union, our two nations should look to the future. We should find ways to work together to meet the challenge of preserving peace. Living in this nuclear age makes it imperative that we talk to each other, discuss our differences, and seek solutions to the many problems that divide us. America is ready. We would welcome negotiations. And I repeat today what I've said before: We're prepared to meet the Soviets halfway in the search for mutually acceptable agreements. I hope the leaders of the Soviet Union will work with us in that same spirit. I invite them to take advantage of the opportunities at hand to establish a more stable and constructive relationship. If the Soviet Government wants peace, then there will be peace. In recent days, millions of citizens inside the Soviet Union, the United States, and countries throughout the world have been brought together by one great event, the winter Olympics. The competition is fierce, and we cheer for the men and women on our respective teams. But we can and should celebrate the triumphs of all athletes who compete in the true spirit of sportsmanship and give the very best of themselves. And when each race or event is done and our teams come together in friendship, we will remember that we are meant to be one family of nations. We who are leaders in government have an obligation to strive for cooperation every bit as hard as our athletes, who reach within for the greatest efforts of their lives. If the Soviet Government would join us in this spirit, then together we could build a safer and far better world for the human family, not just for today but for generations to come. Till next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Shouldn't we have the right as citizens of this great country to walk our streets without being afraid and to go to bed without worrying the next sound might be a burglar or a rapist? Of course we should. But in reality we don't. The sad fact is too many of our friends and loved ones live in fear of crime. And there's no mystery as to why. For too many years, the scales of criminal justice were tilted toward protecting rights of criminals. Those in charge forgot or just plain didn't care about protecting your rightsthe rights of law-abiding citizens. We came to Washington determined to change that by restoring the proper balance to our criminal justice system and by assisting all of you who, through Neighborhood Watch-type programs, are trying to protect life, property, and security in your communities. Common sense is beginning to pay off. In 1982 the crime rate dropped by 4.3 percentthe biggest decline since 1972. But we still face a tremendous challenge, and meeting that challenge is what I want to talk to you about today. Since drugs are related to an enormous amount of violent crime, drug trafficking and organized crime are among our major targets. For the first time in this nation's history, we've thrown the resources of the FBI into drug enforcement. A new border interdiction program is underway. Task forces aimed at drug gangs cover the Nation, and they've indicted more than 1,300 persons in the last year. In fact, since our administration came into office, the number of drug-related convictions has increased 33 percent. Since 1981 the number of enforcement agents, prosecutors, and the amount of funding and Federal cooperation with State and local agencies have all greatly increased. Even the military is providing assistance in the fight against drug traffickers. But we still need to do more. We need new laws to stop drug traffickers from harming our people, especially our young people. And we need tougher laws to fight other forms of crime so we can make the lives of all Americans more secure. This issue should never turn into a prolonged partisan struggle, but it has. The Senate recently passed overwhelmingly our Comprehensive Crime Control Act. The House has done nothing and continues to wait. But wait for what? Bottling up longoverdue reforms that would provide you, the people, greater protection against dangerous criminals is a serious mistake you should not tolerate. Let me give you some examples of what's at stake here. One of our bill's reforms would create tougher laws permitting Federal prosecutors to seize the profits and assets of organized crime and drug traffickers. This would be a severe blow to the crime czars. Why should any right-minded person oppose it? Another reform, involving the so-called exclusionary rule, would allow evidence obtained reasonably and in good faith to be used in a criminal trial. How many times have we seen law enforcement officers handcuffed by the maze of technicalities that make collection and presentation of evidence so difficult? Our bill also makes sentencing more uniform and certain. There's nothing complicated about this. The sentence imposed should be the sentence served, with no parole. Too many sentences today are inadequate and the time served too short. Another important reform concerns bail. It's hard to imagine the present system being any worse. Except in capital cases, Federal courts cannot consider the danger a defendant may pose to others if released. The judge can only consider whether it's likely the defendant will appear for trial if granted bail. Recently, a man charged with armed robbery and suspected of four others was given a low bond and quickly released. Four days later he and a companion robbed a bank, and in the course of the robbery a policeman was shot. This kind of outrage happens again and again, and it must be stopped. So, we want to permit judges to deny bail and lock up defendants who the government has shown pose a grave danger to their communities. Our bill would also cut back on the misuse of insanity as a defense, strengthen child pornography laws, and provide greater financial assistance to State and local law enforcement programs. Independently of our crime package, we're mounting a major effort to combat crimes such as sexual assault and family violence. We're also working hard to improve the justice system treatment of our fellow citizens who were the innocent victims of crime. These reforms make good sense, and there's no excuse for not passing them. The liberal approach of coddling criminals didn't work and never will. Nothing in our Constitution gives dangerous criminals a right to prey on innocent, law-abiding people. I would hope the Members of the House could remember this and bring up our bill for consideration without further delay. This is the most comprehensive anticrime legislation in more than a decade. In the interest of true justice and in recognition of this past week, National Crime Prevention Week, it deserves full debate and a vote. Perhaps you might inquire from your Representative if he or she is ready to act, and if not, why not. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: From the early days of the colonies, prayer in school was practiced and revered as an important tradition. Indeed, for nearly 200 years of our nation's history, it was considered a natural expression of our religious freedom. But in 1962 the Supreme Court handed down a controversial decision prohibiting prayer in public schools. Sometimes I can't help but feel the first amendment is being turned on its head. Because ask yourselves: Can it really be true that the first amendment can permit Nazis and Ku Klux Klansmen to march on public property, advocate the extermination of people of the Jewish faith and the subjugation of blacks, while the same amendment forbids our children from saying a prayer in school? When a group of students at the Guilderland High School in Albany, New York, sought to use an empty classroom for voluntary prayer meetings, the 2d Circuit of Appeals said, "No." The court thought it might be dangerous because students might be coerced into praying if they saw the football captain or student body president participating in prayer meetings. Then there was the case of the kindergarten class reciting a verse before their milk and cookies. They said, "We thank you for the flowers so sweet. We thank you for the food we eat. We thank you for the birds that sing. We thank you, God, for everything." But a Federal court of appeals ordered them to stop. They were supposedly violating the Constitution of the United States. Teddy Roosevelt told us, "The American people are slow to wrath, but when their wrath is once kindled it burns like a consuming flame." Up to 80 percent of the American people support voluntary prayer. They understand what the Founding Fathers intended. The first amendment of the Constitution was not written to protect the people from religion; that amendment was written to protect religion from government tyranny. The amendment says, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." What could be more clear? The act that established our public school system called for public education to see that our children learned about religion and morality. References to God can be found in the Mayflower Compact of 1620, the Declaration of Independence, the Pledge of Allegiance, and the National Anthem. Our legal tender states, "In God We Trust." When the Constitution was being debated at the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin Franklin rose to say: "The longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see that God governs in the affairs of men. Without His concurring aid, we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel." He asked: "Have we now forgotten this powerful Friend? Or do we imagine we no longer need His assistance?" Franklin then asked the Convention to begin its daily deliberations by asking for the assistance of Almighty God. George Washington believed that religion was an essential pillar of a strong society. In his farewell address, he said, "Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle." And when John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, was asked in his dying hour if he had any farewell counsels to leave his children, Jay answered, "They have the Book." But now we're told our children have no right to pray in school. Nonsense. The pendulum has swung too far toward intolerance against genuine religious freedom. It's time to redress the balance. Former Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart noted if religious exercises are held to be an impermissible activity in schools, religion is placed at an artificial and state-created disadvantage. Permission for such exercises for those who want them is necessary if the schools are truly to be neutral in the matter of religion. And a refusal to permit them is seen not as the realization of state neutrality, but rather as the establishment of a religion of secularism. The Senate will soon vote on a constitutional amendment to permit voluntary vocal prayer in public schools. If two-thirds of the Senate approve, then we must convince the House leadership to permit a vote on the issue. I am confident that if the Congress passes our amendment this year, then the State legislatures will do likewise, and we'll be able to celebrate a great victory for our children. Our amendment would ensure that no child be forced to recite a prayer. Indeed, it explicitly states this. Nor would the state be allowed to compose the words of any prayer. But the courts could not forbid our children from voluntary vocal prayer in their schools. And by reasserting their liberty of free religious expression, we will be helping our children understand the diversity of America's religious beliefs and practices. If ever there was a time for you, the good people of this country, to make your voices heard, to make the mighty power of your will the decisive force in the halls of Congress, that time is now. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: If you had to choose between shrinking the size of government or shrinking the size of your paycheck, which would it be? Chances are you think you're paying enough taxes already. And I agree with you. The trouble is, your opinions don't always count for much in Washington, DC. It seems to be taken for granted here that the Federal Government has an automatic right to grow at your expense. Listening to people talk, you'd almost think government owns your earnings. So, please be a little skeptical when you hear the moaning from Washington's born-again deficit fighters. The truth is, these are the same people who brought us big and bloated government in the first place, and they haven't changed a bit. The Democrats use foggy language like "recovering revenue" or "stopping the revenue drain," but you don't need a Ph.D. in bureaucracy to know what they're offering: a choice between a tax increase, a tax increase, or a tax increase. In the down payment deficit reduction talks at the White House, suggestions were made on behalf of liberal House Democrats-suggestions for making you pay more taxes. They added up to $100 billion or more. Some examples: Liberal Democrats want very badly to eliminate indexing; that's the historic reform that will tie your tax brackets to the rate of inflation. Starting next year, you will no longer be pushed into a higher tax bracket just because you're receiving a cost-of-living raise. Keep in mind that indexing doesn't help the wealthy; they're already in the highest tax brackets. Indexing helps those who need help, but it deprives government of the automatic increase in its allowance, so the spenders want to get rid of it. I don't intend to let them. Another suggestion of theirs is a 3-year postponement in additional estate tax reductions. This would be a cruel blow to surviving spouses of family-owned farms and businesses. Hasn't the farm community suffered enough with the last administration's grain embargo? And the liberals would raise personal tax rates on millions of families and small businesses. These tax increases are neither wise nor compassionate. And they wouldn't reduce the deficit, they'd just reduce the recovery. And none of us should want that. Yes, deficits are a problem. I've been saying so for more than a quarter of a century now. But the problem is not the size of the deficit, it's the size of government's claim on our economy. Whether government borrows or increases taxes, it will be taking the same amount of money from the private economy. So, if we raise taxes before cutting spending, the money will just be spent, the deficit won't be reduced, and government will grow bigger. Now, that's what the House Democrats tried to do last year. Their budget resolution would have raised your taxes, then squandered that money on new programs. Well, we have a better way to cut deficits-cut the growth of government by cutting out the waste. This will reduce government's claim on the people's earnings, leaving more money for you to borrow, spend, invest, and to help our economy grow. Don't let anyone tell you it can't be done. We've already cut spending by more than $300 billion on a 5-year basis. Contrary to what you've heard, we haven't done this by hurting the needy. Total spending on social programs has increased by $71 billion during these last 3 years. To cite two examples frequently misrepresented, social security and Medicare benefits to America's senior citizens are higher than ever before, even after adjusting for inflation. We've been cutting the growth of government by eliminating waste. My Inspectors General have identified nearly $31 billion in agency fraud, waste, and abuse; and we're going after it. For example, we've almost stopped the growth of delinquencies on amounts owed the Federal Government. And we boosted collections by $12.5 billion last year. As part of its new "get tough" policy, the Department of Education is cracking down on people who defaulted on their student loans, and they're recovering $390,000 a day. And believe me, there's plenty more waste to cut. Those $300 billion in budget savings I mentioned are barely half of what we asked for from the Congress. And the Grace commission made some 2,500 recommendations for reducing billions of dollars in wasteful government spending and subsidies. I'll be speaking out on this topic in future radio talks, but one thing is clear: Raising taxes is a cop-out; cutting waste in government is the right way to go. And this is what we're doing and what we'll continue to do. With your support, we can shrink government and stop the spendthrifts from shrinking your paychecks. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: During the last 2 years the United States has risen from the depths of recession to one of the strongest recoveries in decades; from dark days of despair to a bright new dawn of promise and hope for all Americans. I remember saying back when things looked the worst that too much pessimism could be deadly. Well, some people criticized me for trying to sugar-coat bad news. I merely wanted us to remember that there's a psychological factor in recession, and too much hammering at it makes recession worse. What pulled us through that ordeal, I'm convinced, was our determination to stick to our program, believe in ourselves, and trust in our values of faith, freedom, and hard workvalues that have never failed us when we've lived up to them. And now we're seeing the payoff. 1983 was a banner year for America, notwithstanding voices of pessimism which always found the single dark cloud in every blue sky. Those voices come from many different areas of our society. Recently, the Wall Street Journal reported on a survey of one of themthe television networks' nightly news coverage of the economy during the last half of 1983. During that entire period there were 4 to 15 economic statistic stories a month telling us whether inflation, unemployment, interest rates, retail sales, or housing starts were up or down for a given month. The survey found nearly 95 percent of these reports were positive. However, of the 104 lengthy economic news stories in which the networks gave us their interpretation of what was happening, 86 percent were primarily negative. The survey found the economic news in the second half of 1983 was good. But the coverage on network television was still in recession. Now please don't get me wrong, every administration must be held accountable. None of us can be excluded from the fury of a free press whenever that's right and proper. But true balance implies consistently showing all faces of America, including hope, optimism, and progress. Our economy is stronger than practically anyone predicted. The index of leading economic indicators has been up 16 of the last 17 months. Industrial production has risen 14 straight months. Housing starts climbed 60 percent in 1983 to the highest level in 4 years. Retail sales surged. Auto sales registered their best year since 1979. And we had the steepest drop in the unemployment rate in more than 30 years. Yesterday we learned that unemployment for all workers in February dropped to 7.7 percent. More Americans are now at work than ever before in this nation's history. Here's one example that sums up the difference between yesterday's policies of depending on government and our approach that begins with trusting people. Last year we were asked to raise taxes and appropriate money for a $3.5 billion program to put 300,000 people in make-work jobs over a year. We said no, because incentives produce economic recovery, and strong, steady growth puts more people back to work than any government program. And it has. Recovery has put as many people back to work each month as their program would in a year. We've added an average of 300,000 jobs every single month for the past 15 months, and almost 400,000 last month alone. That's 4.9 million additional workers working and paying taxes. Our economic recovery has become economic expansion. And the potential for new jobs and economic growth in the future is beyond our imagination. The revolution in science and high technology is only beginning. Each time our knowledge expands, each time we push back frontiers of medicine, agriculture, and space, we will be creating entire new industries, modernizing older ones, and raising our standard of living. The issue before America in 1984 is clear: Which direction will we go nowforward with optimism, faith, and confidence, continuing to build an opportunity society for all our people; or backward in pessimism and fear, surrendering to politicians who would dismantle our program because their agenda is to make government grow big and fat at your expense? To serve that agenda, they need to dwell on bad news. So when good news comes, they're either dumbstruck or they pretend they didn't hear. Well, with your support, we'll keep our economy moving forward, and we'll keep America's rendezvous with an optimistic future. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you. You know, this is a day when those of us of Irish descent have an opportunity to boast a little and, like good Irishmen, celebrate a lot. Because of the Irish, America today is a richer, brighter, freer, and, yes, a bit noisier land than it otherwise would have been. But today all Americans can take pride in the rich diversity of America's ethnic heritageespecially the Irish American contribution to that heritage. It's one reason why Nancy and I were delighted to host a lunch here at the White House yesterday for Prime Minister FitzGerald of Ireland. We all had a roaring good time, but there was some important business done as well. The Prime Minister and I urged all Americans not to give support of any kind to the terrorist IRA elements in Northern Ireland. Believe me, it was a call heartily endorsed by all the Irish American political leaders who were present. And second, the Prime Minister brought us a message of hope about peace and reconciliation of the problem of Northern Ireland. After all the tragedy in Northern Ireland, it was cheering to hear about groups who are working toward mutual tolerance, and peaceful and democratic solutions. Here at home, as we prepare to greet the first days of spring, there is also reason for confidence and cheer. Good economic news is bursting out all over, and America's economy seems to be saying, "This is celebration time." Optimism is being bolstered by vigorous new growth, continued low inflation, and better prospects for reducing budget deficits. Just yesterday we learned that the Producer Price Index rose only four-tenths of 1 percent in February, a smaller rise than in January, and a solid sign that inflation remains in check. We're determined to keep the nightmare of runaway inflation from ever coming back. Housing starts reached 2.2 million units in February, the highest level in nearly 6 years. That's an 11-percent increase from the January level, which was revised up to 1.9 million units. And building permits, a signal of builders' intentions, also registered a strong increase, so that means continued housing strength in the months to come. Combine these signs of economic confidence with a strong recovery in one industry after another15 consecutive monthly increases in industrial production, business investments stronger than expected, growing research in science and technology, and a welcome rebirth of productivity growth, and we can understand how the United States economy created nearly 5 million jobs in the last 15 months and has become the engine for a new era of worldwide economic expansion. We're also making progress towards reducing projected budget deficits. For one thing, the sheer strength of America's economic growth, as measured by all those new jobs created in the last 15 months, means more people are supporting themselves and paying taxes, and fewer people need government assistance. As I've said again and again, strong and steady economic growth is the best way to reduce deficits. And as you may have heard, I've just reached agreement with the Republican leadership in the Congress on a deficit reduction package totaling some $150 billion over the next 3 years. Just Thursday night, shortly after we reached agreement, the Senate Finance Committee concluded its work on a major portion of our package. I'm hopeful the entire package will be passed promptly by the Senate. This $150 billion down payment deserves strong bipartisan support in the House because it will reduce the deficit in a way that's effective, responsible, and fair, by targeting $43 billion of savings in nondefense spending, $57 billion in defense authority reductions, and by raising some $48 billion in revenues, primarily from closing certain tax loopholes of questionable fairness. Now, make no mistake. The defense cuts will slow our defense buildup somewhat, but not to a point of unacceptable risk. There will be no increase in tax rates on American families and no tax increases that would threaten the economic recovery. Continued strong growth with the prospect of deficits coming down and without renewed inflation spells a brighter future for America's economy, provided the Congress will just stick with our program. Some might attribute our success to the "luck o' the Irish." Well, maybe we have enjoyed a bit of luck. But believe me, the real reason is an economic recovery program based on common sense. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow is an historic day for the beleaguered nation of El Salvador. Scores of international observers will watch as the people of El Salvador risk their lives to exercise a right we take for grantedthe right to vote for their President. This right of choice is not something that is common in all of Central America. It contrasts sharply, for example, with Nicaragua, where the Sandinistas staged a revolution in 1979 promising free elections, freedom of the press, freedom of religion. Despite these promises, the Sandinistas have consistently broken their word, and the elections that they've announced for November seemed designed only to consolidate their control. Unlike El Salvador, the Nicaraguans don't want international oversight of their campaign and elections. When the members of the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America visited Nicaragua, the Sandinista dictators briefed them with Soviet intelligence and said the U.S. is the source of all evil. In El Salvador the members heard appreciation for our country's efforts to promote peace, democracy, and development. El Salvador is an emerging democracy plagued by a Communist insurgency and human rights abuses which must stop, but a nation which is strongly pro-American and struggling to make self-government succeed. Nicaragua is a Communist dictatorship armed to the teeth, tied to Cuba and the Soviet Union, which oppresses its people and threatens its neighbors. The stability of our Latin friendsindeed, the security of our own bordersdepends upon which type of society prevailsthe imperfect democracy seeking to improve, or the Communist dictatorship seeking to expand. The Bipartisan Commission warned that new Communist regimes could be expected to fall into the same pattern as Nicaragua; namely, expand their armed forces, bring in large numbers of Cuban and Soviet bloc advisers, and increase the repression of their own people and the subversion of their neighbors. And the Commission warned that a rising tide of communism would likely produce refugees, perhaps millions of them, many of whom would flee to the United States. Now, these tragic events are not written in stone, but they will happen if we do nothing or even too little. Based on the recommendations of the Commission, I sent the Congress in February a proposal to encourage Democratic institutions, improve living conditions, and help our friends in Central America resist Communist threats. Three-fourths of our request is for economic and humanitarian assistance. And that brings me to an important point: The people who argue that the root of violence and instability is poverty, not communism, are ignoring the obvious. But all the economic aid in the world won't be worth a dime if Communist guerrillas are determined and have the freedom to terrorize and to burn, bomb, and destroy everything from bridges and industries to power and transportation systems. So, in addition to economic and humanitarian assistance, we must also provide adequate levels of security assistance to permit our friends to protect themselves from Cuban and Soviet supported subversion. Military assistance is crucial right now to El Salvador. The Salvadoran people repudiated the guerrillas when they last voted in 1982, but continued Soviet-Cuban-Nicaraguan support for the guerrillas, combined with the failure of our Congress to provide the level of military aid I've requested, have put El Salvador in an extremely vulnerable position. The guerrillas have been seizing the identification cards that allow citizens to vote. One of El Salvador's principal guerrilla commanders has pledged an all-out effort to disrupt the elections. And, should there be a need for an election runoff in late April or May, these same guerrillas, who have already assassinated elected congressmen in El Salvador, will do everything they can to disrupt that election as well. We're looking at an emergency situation. So, I've asked Congress to provide immediate security assistance for El Salvador while the comprehensive bipartisan legislation makes its way through the Congress over the next several months. This is the moment of truth. There is no time to lose. If the Congress acts responsibly, while the cost is still not great, then democracy in Central America will have a chance. If the Congress refuses to act, the cost will be far greater. The enemies of democracy will intensify their violence, more lives will be lost, and real danger will come closer and closer to our shores. This is no time for partisan politics. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: A few weeks ago, George Gallup, who regularly surveys the pulse of America, released a poll with very upbeat news. Gallup said the current mood of the American people is the brightest in 5 years. Our citizens still feel the burdens of everyday problems, but there's a feeling among us that we've finally turned the corner. Real progress is being made, and America is moving forward again. Better days for America may be bad news for some, but even the most committed gloom mongers can't deny the truth forever. Our economy is strong, prices are stable, jobs are increasing, and our nation is at peace. We're building a true opportunity society, and this is especially true for today's women. Women in the eighties are a diverse majority with varied interests and futures. Some seek to pursue their own careers; some run for political office; others focus on the home and family. Some seek to do all these things. They are members of a growing group called "working mothers," and sometimes their days resemble a script from "Mission Impossible." Well, no role is superior to another. What's important is that every woman have the right and opportunity to choose the role she wishesor, perhaps, try to fill them all. And whether the choice be homemaking, career, or both, our administration is trying to help in many different ways. We've increased training opportunities through the Job Training Partnership Act so women can secure permanent, productive employment. For those whose former spouses are delinquent in child-support payments, we've strengthened the Federal child-support enforcement system, and we have additional proposals pending before the Congress. For all women we've provided several forms of tax reliefrelief, by the way, which could and should have been passed long ago by those in Washington who had a monopoly on power and who still claim a monopoly on compassion. We've reduced personal income tax rates by 25 percent. We've greatly reduced the marriage tax penalty. We've almost doubled the maximum child care tax credit for working mothers. We've expanded IRA accounts, benefiting women whether they work at home or in paid jobs, and we're moving to bring even greater equity to those accounts. And we've eliminated the widow's tax, the estate taxes levied on a surviving spouse. This will help women who've been hard-working partners on family farms and small businesses. We're also working with the Congress on historic legislation that reforms inequities against women in private pension plans. This legislation has passed the Senate, and we're waiting for final action in the House. I hope it will come soon. The reforms would lower the age employees can participate in company pension plans, protect spouses from losing death benefits without their knowledge, permit a break in service of up to 5 years without loss of pension credit, coordinate State and Federal laws so divorced spouses can collect court-awarded pension benefits more easily, and require private pension plans to survivor's benefitsoffer survivor's benefits, I should say, protection to workers after they're 45. I've always believed the greatest contribution we can make is to get our economy moving and keep it moving. Economic growth will provide more opportunities for women than if all the promises ever made in Washington, DC, were enacted into law. Well, economic growth is very strong. And job opportunities for women are popping up like springtime tulips. Three million more women are working today in our economy than in January 1981. One exciting area of growth is that of women-owned businesses. The number of businesses owned by women is increasing four times faster than those owned by men. Yesterday, I met some of the people whose dreams, intelligence, and hard work are making America in 1984 the most forward-looking and successful nation in the world. I had lunch at the White House with the members of my Advisory Committee on Women's Business Ownership12 women and 3 men, all successful in the professional world. They're working with the Small Business Administration on conferences across the country to help women acquire skills to own businesses and compete effectively. They're also trying to identify problems business owners and potential business owners are meeting. Now, if you've had any, please write to me at the White House, and I'll share your thoughts with the Advisory Committee. Next Thursday, I'll be traveling to New York to attend one of these conferences to meet with and to address women business owners of that great city. All over this country the entrepreneur is changing the face and brightening the future of America, and she's just getting started. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday I spoke here in Washington about America's foreign policy challenges and what we're doing to meet them. Well, I'd like to continue talking about those challenges today. All Americans long for a safer world in which individual rights are respected and precious values flourish. But we're also realistic. We know we live in a troubled world and that we have global responsibilities. Our industries depend on energy and minerals from distant lands. Our prosperity requires a sound financial system and markets open to our goods. And our security is linked with the security of our allies and trading partners. When I took office, we faced the greatest foreign policy challenges since World War II. Challenge number one was reducing the risk of nuclear war. Second, we had to try to help bring greater stability to regions riddled by terrorism and revolutionary violence that threatened our interests and, ultimately, our security. Third, we had to deal with an international economy that was crippled by soaring inflation rates, low growth, and predictions of an imminent global depression. Finally, we had to restore bipartisan support for a foreign policy that would meet our responsibilities. How is America meeting her foreign policy challenges today? Well, much better. We've regained our strength and confidence. We're a leader again for peace and progress. Reducing the risk of nuclear war means maintaining a secure military balance and pursuing every opportunity to reduce weapons by agreement. Today America is safer because our defenses are stronger. We're offering the most sweeping arms control proposals in history, from reducing nuclear arms to banning chemical weapons. Does the new Soviet leadership truly want to reach agreements that can make the world safer? Well, they'll never convince the world they're sincere with harsh rhetoric and walk-outs. We do know they respect strength. And in time, we should expect that they will return to the negotiating table where all of us hope and pray that a safer world can be secured. Our second challenge, peacemaking in troubled regions, has demanded a new direction. We're trying to bring all our strengths to bear. Economic aid alone won't stop Soviet-sponsored guerrillas, and individual rights aren't secure without peace. We need all the tools we havediplomatic mediation, economic help, security assistance, and promotion of democratic reformsto address complex regional problems. The recent Presidential elections in El Salvador probably couldn't have been held if we'd followed any other approach. And for democracy to have a chance in the future, the Congress must pass the plan we've proposed, which follows the recommendations made by the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America. Our third challenge, expanding opportunities for economic development and personal freedom, is also being met. America's powerful expansion is pulling the international economy forward. As we buy more from our friends, they buy more from us. Jobs, income, and opportunities increase for all. We've developed creative initiatives to spark private enterprise in the Caribbean. We're expanding our economic relationships with the growing nations of the Pacific Basin. And we're shoring up the international financial system. You hear about the economic upturn. You don't hear enough about the democratic upturn. Ten years ago, fewer than half the people of Latin America and the Caribbean lived in democracies or countries embarked on a democratic transition. Today 90 percent of the people do. The tide of the future is a freedom tide. Finally, our fourth challenge, restoring bipartisan consensus to our foreign policy, is urgently needed. The Congress has given itself many new powers in foreign policy. Over 100 separate restrictions on executive authority were enacted in the 1970's, but the Congress hasn't yet accepted an equal sense of responsibility. We've had some successes in bipartisanship. The Scowcroft commission helped create a consensus on arms control policy, and the bipartisan Kissinger commission gave us a comprehensive set of recommendations on Central America. But we must go beyond recommendations to action. I applaud the Senate's approval this week of emergency security assistance to El Salvador, and I hope the House will give its approval. When we develop a problem-solving plan to help build a safer world and a better world, there must be no Republicans or Democrats, just Americans pulling together. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Much has been made of late regarding our proper role in Central America and, in particular, toward Nicaragua. Unfortunately, much of the debate has ignored the most relevant facts. Central America has become the stage for a bold attempt by the Soviet Union, Cuba, and Nicaragua to install communism, by force, throughout this hemisphere. The struggling democracies of Costa Rica, Honduras, and El Salvador are being threatened by a Soviet bloc and Cuban-supported Sandinista army and security force in Nicaragua that has grown from about 10,000 under the previous government to more than 100,000 in less than 5 years. Last year alone, the Soviet bloc delivered over $100 million in military hardware. The Sandinistas have established a powerful force of artillery, multiple-rocket launchers, and tanks in an arsenal that exceeds that of all the other countries in the region put together. More than 40 new military bases and support facilities have been constructed in Nicaraguaall with Soviet bloc and Cuban supportand an investment of over $300 million. In addition to money and guns, there are now more than 2,500 Cuban and Soviet military personnel in Nicaragua, another 5,000 so-called civilian advisers, as well as PLO, East bloc [East German], and Libyan assistance to the Sandinistas. And that's not all. Our friends in the region must also face the export of subversion across their borders that undermines democratic development, polarizes institutions, and wrecks their economies. This terrorist violence has been felt by all of Nicaragua's neighbors, not just El Salvador. There have been bombings in peaceful Costa Rica and numerous attempts to penetrate Honduras-most recently last summer, when the Sandinistas infiltrated an entire guerrilla column [colony] which had been trained and equipped in Cuba and Nicaragua. El Salvador, struggling to hold democratic elections and improve the conditions of its people, has been the main target of Nicaragua's covert aggression. Despite promises to stop, the Sandinistas still train and direct terrorists in El Salvador and provide weapons and ammunitions they use against the Salvadoran people. If it weren't for Nicaragua, El Salvador's problems would be manageable, and we could concentrate on economic and social improvements. Much of the Sandinista terror has been aimed at the Nicaraguan people themselves. The Sandinistas who govern Nicaragua have savagely murdered, imprisoned, and driven from their homeland tens of thousands of Miskito, Rama, and Suma Indians. Religious persecution against Christians has increased, and the Jewish community has fled the country. The press is censored, and activities of labor and business are restricted. The Sandinistas have announced elections for November, but don't hold your breath. Will new parties be permitted? Will they have full access to the press, TV, and radio? Will there be unbiased observers? Will every adult Nicaraguan be allowed to vote? Given their record of repression, we should not wonder that the opposition, denied other means of expression, has taken up arms. We've maintained a consistent policy toward the Sandinista regime, hoping they can be brought back from the brink peacefully through negotiations. We're working through the Contadora process for a verifiable multilateral agreement, one that ensures the Sandinistas terminate their export of subversion, reduce the size of their military forces, implement their democratic commitments to the Organization of American States, and remove Soviet bloc and Cuban military personnel. But the Sandinistas, uncomfortable with the scrutiny and concern of their neighbors, have gone shopping for a more sympathetic hearing. They took their case to the United Nations, and now to the International Court of Justice. This does little to advance a negotiated solution, but it makes sense if you're trying to evade the spotlight of responsibility. What I've said today is not pleasant to hear, but it's important that you know Central America is vital to our interests and to our security. It not only contains the Panama Canal, it sits astride some of the most important sea lanes in the worldsee lanes in which a Soviet-Cuban naval force held combat maneuvers just this week. The region also contains millions of people who want and deserve to be free. We cannot turn our backs on this crisis at our doorstep. Nearly 23 years ago, President Kennedy warned against the threat of Communist penetration in our hemisphere. He said, "I want it clearly understood that this government will not hesitate in meeting its primary obligations which are to the security of our nation." We can do no less today. I have, therefore, after consultation with the Congress, decided to use one of my legal authorities to provide money to help the Government of El Salvador defend itself. Till next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As a boy growing up in Illinois, swimming was an important part of my life. Pools weren't very common or affordable in those days, so my swimming was done in the Rock River. I soon learned that swimming with the current downstream was a lot easier than swimming upstream. Nevertheless, today I'm going to swim against the current. The current I'm talking about is a riptide of criticism that claims this administration's economic policies impoverish the poor and bestow benefits on the rich. This distorted view was created by special interest demagoguery and political-year oratory, dutifully reported by a goodly portion of the press. A week or so ago there was a report, complete with impressive figures, showing that our economic policy has punished people at the poverty level. The report was accurate that in 1978 an income of 6,662 was the poverty level. It is also accurate that inflation has now pushed the poverty level up to $10,180. In other words, it takes that much to buy what 6,662 would buy in 1978. Critics have concluded on the basis of this report that because of our economic program, those at that level were much poorer than they had been in 1978. Well, they're right that those at the poverty level have not kept up, but wrong as to what is to blame. It certainly isn't our tax cut, which is helping low-income earners keep more of their hard-earned dollars. Part of it was caused by the biggest single tax increase in history, which had been passed back in 1977, calling for several successive increases in the social security payroll tax to take place between 1977 and 1990. During that same period, by the way, there will be increases in the amount of earnings subject to the tax up to more than 52,800. But this is only part of the reason those people at the poverty level are having trouble keeping up, and it hasn't anything to do with our across-the-board, 25-percent cut in the income tax. The simple truth is the income tax does not take into account the value of your dollars. It's based on the number of dollars you earn. So, even though $10,180 is only worth as much in purchasing power as 6,662 was a few years ago, you have to pay income tax on those 3,500 additional dollars just as if you gained that much in purchasing power. Now, let's take a look at that other drumbeat that our tax cut is designed to help the rich get richer and either does nothing for the low- or middle-income earners or, even worse, adds to their burden, and how they arrive at that conclusion. Well, it's true that if your tax burden is $100, your tax cut is only $25. But if your tax is $1,000, your saving is $250, 10 times as much. But the ratio stays the same. If your tax burden was 10 times as much before, you're still paying ten times as much tax. There's a better test of whether one group benefits more than another: Did the tax cut increase or decrease the share of the total tax paid by the earners at various levels? In 1982, the last year for which we have complete figures, all those with incomes below $20,000 a year paid a 10-percent smaller share of total income tax revenue than they did in 1981. From $20,000 to $50,000, the share only dropped by 1 percent. From $50,000 and up, the share of total tax increased by 7 percent. And if you break that group down to those earning $500,000 and up, their share of the total income tax burden increased by 43 percent. This, then, is the best kept secret about our tax cut. The wealthiest Americans are carrying a higher share of the total tax burden after our tax cut than they were before. Next year, another part of our tax program will go into effect. It's called indexing and will begin on January 1st. Very simply, it means you will no longer pay an income tax on inflation, which you've done every time a raise or cost-of-living increase pushed you into a higher tax bracket. The greatest beneficiaries of indexing will be those in the lower and middle-income tax brackets. It will do little for the so-called rich, because they're already in top tax brackets. Many of those who were the loudest in declaring our tax program unfair want to cancel indexing before it goes into effect. Canceling indexing would increase the tax burden for lower and middle-income earners by three times as large a percentage as it would for the rich. And one last pointperhaps the most important. Our program is stimulating strong economic growth, creating more jobs and opportunity than ever before. Well, so much for swimming upstream. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm sure you've heard that Nancy and I are traveling a long way from home this week. We've already flown more than 9,000 miles, stopping off in the beautiful islands of Hawaii to visit the citizens of our 50th State; and then across the International Dateline to Guam, where the rays of each sunrise first touch the Stars and Stripes; and then on to our primary destination, China, one of the world's oldest civilizations and a country of great importance in today's Pacific community of nations. This is our second trip to Asia in the last 6 months. It demonstrates our awareness of America's responsibility as a Pacific leader in the search for regional security and economic well-being. The stability and prosperity of this region are of crucial importance to the United States. The nations comprising the Pacific Basin represent our fastest growing trading markets. Many say that the 21st century will be the century of the Pacific. Our relations with China have continued to develop through the last four administrations, ever since President Nixon made his historic journey here in 1972. In 1978 the Chinese leadership decided to chart a new course for their country, permitting more economic freedom for the people in an effort to modernize their economy. Not surprisingly, the results have been positive. Today China's efforts to modernize, foster the spirit of enterprise, open its doors to the West, and expand areas of mutual cooperation while opposing Soviet aggression make it a nation of increasing importance to America and to prospects for peace and prosperity in the Pacific. When Nancy and I arrived in Beijing, we were touched by the friendly hospitality of the Chinese people, and we've been delighted to see the sweeping vistas, the bustling activity, and the many hallmarks of history in this great, old city. In Beijing, narrow residential streets, traditional one-story houses, and treasures like the Forbidden City, a former Imperial Palace, first erected in 1420, are interspersed with modern high-rises and wide avenues. The streets are normally filled with people riding bicycles. All of you who like bikeriding would love Beijing. From the first moment, our schedule has been fully packed. I've already had extensive meetings with the Chinese leaders-President Li, Prime Minister Zhao, General Secretary Hu, and Chairman Deng. I had the honor of addressing a large group of Chinese and American leaders in science and industry in the Great Hall of the People, and I've spoken to the people of China over Chinese television. We've also squeezed in some side trips-first, to the magnificent Great Wall, built by the Chinese more than 2,000 years ago to protect their country from outside invaders; and tomorrow, to the ancient city of Xi'an, an archeological treasure considered the cradle of Chinese civilization and located in a fertile plain near the Yellow River. In all of our meetings and appearances, I've stressed one overriding pointdifferent as to our two forms of government-different as they may be, the common interests that bind our two peoples are even greater. Namely, our determination to build a better life and to resist aggressors who violate the rights of law-abiding nations and endanger world peace. When people have the opportunity to communicate, cooperate, and engage in commerce, they can often produce astonishing results. We've already agreed to cooperate more closely in the areas of trade, technology, investment, and exchange of scientific and managerial expertise. And we've reached an important agreement on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy for economic development. Our last stop in China will be Shanghai, a center of culture and commerce. We plan to visit the Shanghai Foxboro Company, where Americans and Chinese are making high technology equipment to help advance China's industries. And I'll also visit with the students at Fudan University and speak to them about the meaning of America, the challenges our people face, and the dreams we share. We can learn much from the rich history of China and from the wisdom and character of her people. And I've told the Chinese that Americans are people of peace, filled with the spirit of innovation and a passion for progress to make tomorrow better than today. Our two nations are poised to take an historic step forward on the path of peaceful cooperation and economic development. I'm confident that our trip will be a significant success, resulting in a stronger U.S.-China relationship than before. For Americans, this will mean more jobs and a better chance for a peaceful world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When I spoke to you a week ago we were in China working to strengthen cooperation between our two countries, increase opportunities for jobs and a better life for our people, and improve the prospects for a more peaceful world. As I told the citizens of Alaska when we arrived back in the States, I feel we made significant progress. Today I'd like to speak about our efforts toward another goal, one that might not get the headlines of a trip to China, but that nonetheless has an important impact on our lives. I'm talking about reducing waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government-problems that for too long were permitted to grow and spread like an unchecked cancer, plundering your pocketbooks and hindering government's ability to provide essential public services in an efficient and timely manner. Our administration is determined to reverse the years of neglect and get this monster under control so we can have a government of, by, and for the people again, not the other way around. That's why we're pushing comprehensive measures like Reform '88, which involves over 1,000 different projects to upgrade the management of the Federal Government; and why we're moving to implement recommendations of the Grace commission, which I established and which has identified billions of dollars in wasteful government spending. Let me give you some specific ways in which we've begun to make progress in improving government's management practicesdoing what others said couldn't be done. First, debt collection: For too long Washington seemed only to care about handing money out, not collecting debts owed. In fact, collection practices were so bad the Federal Government didn't even know how much was owed and how much was overdue. We inherited a delinquency rate that was growing at the shocking rate of almost 30 percent a year. In the $8 billion guaranteed student loan program, 1 student out of 10 defaults on his or her loan. These defaults each year equal enough money to give loans to about 700,000 eligible students. Well, with support from the Congress, we're taking a tough new stance on collections. We're not singling out any individuals or groups, but we can, we must, and we will go after the cheaters who profit from the system at the expense of honest citizens like yourselves who live by the rules. For instance, one military surgeon in Hawaii refused to pay his student debt, even though he made over $50,000 a year and owned seven pieces of real estate. After being threatened with litigation, he paid in one lump sum the $11,500 that he owed. Tens of thousands of Federal employees have been reneging on their student loans. They will get one last chance to pay up before finding their July paychecks smaller. Call it enforced repayment through cuts in take-home pay. Justice Department officials are now aggressively pursuing those who default on loans by putting new emphasis on collection of debts and fines. Our U.S.. attorneys collected $201 million last year, a return of $24 for every dollar invested. The second areawaste, fraud, and abuseis the byproduct of mismanagement. Our management improvements, together with the tremendous accomplishments of our Inspectors General, are a one-two punch taking steam out of the waste and fraud that was eroding faith in our government. Not only have billions in waste and fraud been rooted out, but preventive actions are nipping problems in the bud before they occur. We're making a very determined effort to crack down on white-collar crime, those who abuse positions of power for their own benefit. Both the Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency are pushing nationwide investigations of bid rigging in the awarding of contracts for Federal highway and wastewater treatment facility construction. The Justice Department has already initiated 270 criminal prosecutions in highway bid rigging involving 255 corporations and 256 individuals in 20 States. You've all heard of the problems at the Pentagon with spare parts suppliers charging outrageous prices. Well, what you haven't heard is that this waste was actually uncovered by Department of Defense auditors working for the Inspector General I appointed. We are the first administration which has faced up to these abuses and taken action to correct them. The progress we've made is a good start, but it's little more than a ripple in the river of waste, fraud, and abuse that's been rising for years. That's why it's clear the way to reduce the deficit is by strong economic growth and by reducing wasteful bloated government, not by raising taxes on you, the people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to talk to you today about a wonderful thing that's happening in our country. It began a year ago, so it's only just begun. But already it's changing our country, and I think it may change it forever. I'm talking about the recent progress in America's schools. You may remember the day a year ago when the National Commission on Excellence in Education came out with its report on what was wrong with the Nation's schools. The Commission documented 20 solid years of declinedecline in academic standards and discipline, decline in authority and in scholastic results. The Commission said a rising tide of mediocrity was wiping out America's reputation for the best education system in the world. That report was electrifying, and its current swept the country. Parents and teachers got together, marshaled their resources, and began to turn the situation around. So now, i year later, we can report that together we have met the rising tide of mediocrity with a tidal wave of school reforms. Those reforms reflect the Commission's advice: Get back to basics, tighten standards, heighten academic requirements, and remember discipline in the classroom is vital. In short, make sure that Johnny and Mary can read and write, and make sure their school is allowed the peace without which no student can learn and no teacher can instruct. I want you to listen to some of the things that have happened since the Commission made its recommendations. Thirty-five States have raised high school graduation requirements. Twenty-one States are reviewing steps to make textbooks more challenging. Eight States have lengthened the school day; seven have lengthened the school year. And every State in the Union has put together a task force to improve its educational system. School districts across the country are moving toward requiring 4 years of English in high school and 3 solid years each of math and science. Many legislatures are currently developing workable and fair merit pay plans. Many States have increased teachers' salaries. The private sector, too, is playing a big part in the reforms. Local businesses are adopting local schools, sending in their executives and employees to work with students and teachers to make education more exciting and more pertinent to the 1980's. We're seeing a willingness to reconsider what our schools should be teaching. In the State of Maryland, a commission concluded students aren't being taught enough about American traditions of freedom and liberty. A bipartisan panel came up with a plan to teach students that most basic of democratic arts, the art of citizenship. In New Jersey Governor Tom Kean had another creative ideagive scientists and mathematicians in private industry a form of teaching accreditation so they can go into the schools and teach what they know. Last year, as part of our program to encourage academic excellence, we began the President's Academic Fitness Awards, a scholastic version of the Physical Fitness Awards. Well, participation in the program exceeded our estimates by 400 percent. This month 220,000 high school seniors, who had maintained high marks and achieved high scores on scholastic aptitude tests, won the Academic Fitness Awards. And yesterday, on the South Lawn of the White House, I personally gave the awards to 60 students from around the country. Just seeing their proud faces spoke a world of words about the importance of education to our country's future and the spirit of renewal that's underway. This entire reform movement proves how wrong the people are who always insist money is the only answer to the problems of our schools. Well, leaving aside the fact that the 20 years they kept shoveling money in was the same 20 years in which the schools deteriorated, I think it's fair to say they missed the essential point. Money was never the problem. Leadership was leadership in getting the schools back to basic values, basic traditions, and basic good sense. With the leadership of plain American citizens, we're getting back on track. Much remains to be done. Our administration will go forward with our efforts to control school crime, pass tuition tax credits and school vouchers as well. And, once again, I'll continue working for the restoration of voluntary school prayer, for nothing is as basic as acknowledging the God from whom all knowledge springs. But we can be proud of the progress we're making. And I think this is only the first chapter of a marvelous story about how the people of America came together to recreate a school system that was once the envy of the world. Let's all write the next chapter together. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to talk to you today about our young people and what we can do to provide them an all-important opportunitya summer job. This is a crucial time for young jobseekers, May being the month many firms make their summer hiring decisions. Why are summer jobs so important for teenagers? Well, because when young people are exposed to the world of work, they can reap a wealth of benefits that often remain with them for a lifetime-values of personal initiative, self-reliance, and hard work; practical experience which teaches skills that impart confidence in the ability to compete in the permanent job market; the beginning of work history and references, which are vital to successful careers; and, of course, earnings, which can make the difference between going on to college and greater educational achievements or not. I'll always remember my first job. I was 14 at the time, and I wound up finding work with a construction company that was remodeling homes. By summer's end, I was laying hardwood floors, shingling roofs, and painting houses. I recognize that a lot of rules and regulations have changed since then. Fourteen-year-olds can't receive those kinds of opportunities today. But what of those who receive no opportunity to work at all? That is a crushing disappointment not just for these individuals who may lose motivation and, eventually, self-respect, but also for our economy, because we're literally throwing away America's most precious resourceour next generation. The problem of teenage unemployment is most severe among our black and other minority youth. For some time now, the unemployment rate among black youth has been more than twice as high as that for all youth. And while the current economic expansion has brought the overall unemployment rate down with record speed, the drop in black teenage unemployment has been far less dramatic. As of April, the unemployment rate for all youth, 16 through 19 years of age, was 19.4 percent. Among black teenagers, that rate was 44.8 percent. If a 19.4-percentage unemployment rate is unacceptableand it isthen a 44.8-percent unemployment rate is a national tragedy. And neither must be allowed to persist. Our administration has been working hard on this problem, and we're beginning to make headway. But we want and intend to do much more. Clearly, if the dream of America is to be preserved, we must not waste the genius of one mind, the strength of one body, or the spirit of one soul. We must use every asset we have. And our greatest progress will come by mobilizing the power of private enterprise. We're supporting an extension of the Targeted Jobs Tax Credit Program, providing major incentives for employers to hire more disadvantaged youth. Employers can receive tax credits of as much as 85 percent on the first $3,000 in wages they pay. Last year almost 300,000 young Americans were hired out of this program. The Job Training Partnership Act is another important initiative. The act grants $1.9 billion to States, of which 40 percent must be earmarked for training youth for private sector jobs. Many private firms are cooperating in this program, and I hope many more will do so in coming weeks. But one of the barriers to more jobs for youth is the single minimum wage system, because the cruel truth is, while everyone must be assured a fair wage, there's no compassion in mandating $3.35 an hour for startup jobs that simply aren't worth that much in the marketplace. All that does is guarantee that fewer jobs for teenagers will be created and fewer young people will be hired. So, we're proposing youth employment opportunity wage legislation that can create more than 400,000 new summer jobs for youth. Our bill would allow employers to hire young people at a lower minimum wage during the summer months. And our legislation would do this without displacing adults. The bill explicitly prohibits employers from displacing adults in order to hire youth at the summer wage. I'm delighted this concept has been endorsed by the National Conference of Black Mayors. Thanks to the strength of the economy, some 8 1/2 million young people are likely to be employed this summer, an increase over last year. But America can do better, and must do better, if we're to bring those teenage unemployment rates down further. I'm asking the Congress to pass our youth employment opportunity wage legislation. But I also want to request that all employers review their operations with the aim of creating more summer jobs. You, the business leaders of America, can make a great difference, and the time to act is now. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to talk to you today about a few elements of America's progress. Firstthe economy. We've seen some increases in interest rates in recent weeks, and, of course, we don't like that. But we're not about to panic or be buffaloed by the pessimists who ignore the great progress we've made during these last 3 1/2 years. In 1980 double-digit inflation was a silent thief of every paycheck. Today, it's been cut by nearly two-thirds. For the last 2 years, it's been under 4 percent. I mentioned interest rates. Recently the prime rate climbed from 10 1/2 percent to 12 1/2 percent, and that means mortgage rates have also risen. These increases must be laid to fear that inflation is coming back. Well, we're determined to see that it doesn't. Tax rates have also dropped by nearly 25 percent. If our tax program had not been passed, a median-income family would be paying over $900 a year more in taxes than it does today. And next year, your tax rates will be indexed. From then on, a cost-of-living raise won't bump you into a higher tax bracket. For years, government has used inflation as a silent partner to raise your taxes without having to pass a tax increase and take the heat for doing so. With indexing, you'll be protected against that kind of theft. So, with inflation down, interest rates still down significantly, and taxes no longer rising, America is moving forward with impressive power. By virtually any yardstick, our economy is coming back. America is coming back. And for the first time in a long time, hope for the future is coming back. The strength of the economy continues to defy the experts. Gross national product-the sum total of what our economy producesrose 3.4 percent in 1983 and a healthy 8.8 percent in the first quarter of 1984. Back in 1980, gross national product went down by three-tenths of I percent. Jobs are coming back. Nearly 5 1/2 million Americans found work during the last 17 monthsthe fastest drop in unemployment in over 30 years. Today, some 106 million of us are workingmore than ever before in our history. And last year, some 100,000 new businesses started up. That's a 5-year high that means more jobs for the future. Housing is coming back. Three years ago, even the smallest house seemed completely out of reach. The median monthly mortgage payment shot up from $333 in 1977 to $688 in 1981. During that time, the median price for a home went up by $23,000. Since then monthly mortgage payments have risen only $10. Today, more Americans can afford homes, and more of us are buying homessome 10,000 each day. The auto industry is recovering. Domestic car sales dropped by almost 3 million units between 1977 and 1981. Since then they've increased by 1 million, and they're selling at the fastest rate in 5 years. Past recoveries from recession were snuffed out by a rekindling of inflation. Well, this time inflation is staying down, and we mean to keep it down. In the last 12 months, the Producer Price Index for finished goodsone indicator of future inflationhas risen less than 3 percent. If inflation stays down, interest rates will come down, too, and our economy will keep expanding. There's another area where America was weak, but is now regaining strengthnational defense. Our ability to deter war and protect our security declined dangerously during the 1970's. By 1979 defense spending, as a percent of our total economy, had reached its lowest level in 20 years. Since 1981 we've begun to rebuild America's security and restore the morale, training, and readiness of our Armed Forces. Our precious freedoms are more secure today than they were 3 years ago. A stronger economy and greater security are good news, but we still face great challenges. We must eliminate billions of dollars in wasteful government spending. We must make our tax system more simple and fair so we can bring your personal income tax rates down further and keep our economy growing. And we must keep our defenses strong, so the Soviets will decide it's time to return to the negotiating table and work with us to reduce armaments and assure a more peaceful world. We've made a new beginning. Americans feel prouder and stronger that things are getting better, and rightly so. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Top o' the mornin' to you. I'm speaking from a small town named Cong in western Ireland, first stop on a 10-day trip that will also take Nancy and me to France and England. We're in an area of spectacular beauty overlooking a large lake filled with islands, bays, and coves. And those of you who, like me, can claim the good fortune of Irish roots, may appreciate the tug I felt in my heart yesterday when we saw the Emerald Isle from Air Force One. I thought of words from a poem about Ireland: A place as kind as it is green, The greenest place I've every seen. I told our welcoming hosts that to stand with them on the soil of my ancestors was, for this great-grandson of Ireland, a very special moment. It was a moment of joy. Earlier today we were in Galway, a coastal city celebrating its 500th anniversary. Legend has it Columbus prayed at a church there on his way to the New World. For a thousand years, Ireland was considered the western edge of civilization and a place that continued to revere learning during a time of darkness on the continent of Europe. That reverence earned Ireland its reputation as the Island of Saints and Scholars. I was pleased to address representatives of University College in Galway to speak to them of Ireland's many contributions to America and to give thanks for those great, great forces of faith and love for liberty and justice that bind our people. The president of that institution, Dr. O'hEocha, also chaired a group called the New Ireland Forum, which has sought to foster a spirit of tolerance and reconciliation in Northern Ireland, so the spiral of violence that has cast so many innocent lives thereor cost so many, I should say, can be finally ended. Ireland is a beautiful, proud, and independent land with a young and talented population. But they have an employment problem. By the strength of our economy, and by the presence of some 300 U.S.. firms here, Americans can and will help our Irish cousins create jobs and greater opportunities. And, of course, what helps them will help us, too. Tomorrow, Nancy and I will travel to Ballyporeen for a nostalgic visit to the original home of the Reagan clan. On Monday, we'll be in Dublin, where I'll have the honor of addressing a joint session of the Irish Parliament, as John Kennedy did here 21 years ago. When we leave Ireland, we'll be participating in two events that mark America's determination to help build a safer, more prosperous world. On June 6th, I'll join former U.S.. Army Rangers at the historic battlefield of Pointe du Hoc and, later, President Mitterrand and other American veterans at Omaha Beach and Utah Beach on the Normandy coast of France. Together we'll commemorate the 40th anniversary of D-day, the great Allied invasion that set Europe on the course toward liberty, democracy, and peace. That great battle and the war it helped bring to an end mark the beginning of nearly 40 years of peace in Europea peace preserved not by good will alone, but by the strength and moral courage of the NATO alliance. On June 6th I will reaffirm America's faithful commitment to NATO. If NATO remains strong and unified, Europe and America will remain free. If NATO can continue to deter war, Europe and America can continue to enjoy peace40 more years of peace. And let me make one thing very plain: A strong NATO is no threat to the Soviet Union. NATO is the world's greatest peace movement. It never threatens; it defends. And we will continue trying to promote a better dialog with the Soviet Union. The Soviets could gain much by helping us make the world safer, particularly through arms reductions. That would free them to devote more resources to their people and economy. Growth and prosperity will occupy our attention when we return to London for the annual economic summit of the major industrialized countries. And we'll be marking another important anniversary: 50 years ago, America's leaders had the vision to enact legislation known as the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934. It helped bring an end to a terrible era of protectionism that nearly destroyed the world's economies. We'll talk about how best to maintain the recent progress that has lifted hopes for a worldwide recovery for our common prosperity. You can be proud that the strength of the United States economy has led the way. I believe continued progress lies with freer trade and more open markets. Less protectionism will mean more progress, more growth, more jobs, a bigger slice of the pie for everyone. As we meet in Normandy and London, we'll have much to be thankful for, much to be optimistic about, but still much to do. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Greetings from London. As you probably know, Nancy and I have been in Europe for 8 days, visiting Ireland, commemorating the 40th anniversary of D-day at Normandy, and now meeting with the leaders of the major industrialized democracies at the economic summit to strengthen the basis for freedom, prosperity, and peace. Change comes neither easily nor quickly in foreign affairs. Finding solutions to critical global problems requires lengthy and sustained efforts, the kind we've been making ever since my first economic summit in Ottawa in 1981. Those efforts are now paying off as we reap the benefits of sound policies. Think back 4 yearsAmerica was weak at home and abroad. Remember double-digit inflation, 20-percent interest rates, zero growth, and those never-ending excuses that such misery would be part of our lives for years to come. And remember how our foreign policy invited Soviet aggression and expansion in Afghanistan, Central America, and Africa. Entire countries were lost. Doubts spread about America's leadership in defense of freedom and peace. And so, freedom and peace became less secure. Well, a lot has changed. Today America stands taller in the world. At home we've made a fundamental change in direction-away from bigger and bigger government, toward more power and incentives for people; away from confusion and failure, toward progress through commitment to the enduring values of Western civilization; away from weakness and instability, toward peace through strength and a willingness to negotiate. Together with our allies, we've tried to adopt a similar strategy for progress abroadguided by realism, by common values and interests, and by confidence that we will not remain prisoners of fear and a disappointing past. We can and will move forward to better days. Last year the United States hosted the Williamsburg summit. It had been an active year for allied relations as we grappled with economic and security problems, but we didn't dwell on differences. We joined in a peace and security statement and a blueprint for world economic recovery. Williamsburg was an unprecedented endorsement of Western values. Our alliance emerged stronger and more united than ever. Peace and prosperity were made more secure. Later in the year I traveled to Japan and Korea to emphasize the importance we attached to the dynamic Pacific region. Here too, we faced tough problems, particularly in trade with Japan. But Prime Minister Nakasone is a man of vision and strength, who has worked hard with me to iron out our differences, and we've made progress. Japan has opened up its trading and financial markets and moved to increase its defense expenditures, so vital to preserving peace and freedom in the Pacific Basin. This will mean more U.S.. jobs and greater security for both our nations. In April 1 returned to the Pacific region to visit China. Our relations have steadily improved and our visit capped important agreements that will stimulate U.S.. exports to China as we cooperate with them to modernize their economy. Now, here in London at this year's economic summit, it's clear we've made impressive gains. In 1981 our economies had an average growth rate of only 1.8 percent and 8 1/2-percent inflation. Today our average growth rate has risen to 4 percent, while inflation has been cut in half. Stronger growth means more jobs with the U.S.. economy leading the way. We've created more than 6 million jobs in the last 18 months, and we're venturing into new, promising areas. We've offered our summit partners the opportunity to participate with us in the development of our manned space station. An international space station will stimulate technological development, strengthen our economies, and improve the quality of life into the next century. I've stressed in London that continued progress will require new determination to carry out our common strategy for prosperity and peace. We must summon courage. We must continue with action to curb inflation by reducing unnecessary spending, spur greater growth by reducing regulation, trade barriers, and personal income tax rates. And, yes, we must be prepared for peace by strengthening NATO's ability to deter war, while making clear we're prepared to reduce nuclear weapons dramatically as soon as the Soviets are ready to work with us on this all-important goal. This has been a year of progress, a year when we and our friends in Europe and the Pacific set aside differences and united as great democracies should be with shared vision and values. That progress, stretching beyond America from the Pacific Basin to a strengthened Atlantic Alliance, is a source of hope for a more prosperous and safer world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow is Father's Day, so naturally our thoughts turn to them and to the well-being of family life in America. Families have always stood at the center of our society, preserving good and worthy traditions from our past, entrusting those traditions to our children, our greatest hope for the future. Family life has changed much down through the years. The days when we could expect to live in only one home and hold only one job are probably gone forever. Perhaps we will not go back to the old family ways, but I think we can and should preserve family valuesvalues of faith, honesty, responsibility, tolerance, kindness, and love. And we'll keep on trying to do better, trying to create a better life for those who follow. This hasn't been easy to do in the last decade. It's become more difficult to raise children than it once was. For example, the dependency exemption on your income tax: The money you can deduct for raising a child or caring for an elderly relative was $600 in the late forties. That's been increased to a thousand dollars now. But if that deduction has been indexed to keep pace with inflation, today you would be deducting more than $3,000 for every one of your children. Housing became harder to afford. And the cost of private education also became too expensive for millions of middle-income families. By 1980 American families felt the full shock of runaway taxes, inflation, record interest rates, and soaring prices for housing, education, food, and other necessities of life. They saw the golden promise of the American dream disappearing behind storm clouds of economic misery. Liberals urged huge government subsidies, paying parents for expenses they used to handle themselves. But big government becoming Big Brother, pushing parents aside, interfering with one parental responsibility after another, is no solution. It only makes bad situations worse, raising prices and taxes for everyone. We came to Washington with a better ideahelp working parents to better provide for themselves and their children by enabling them to keep more of their earnings and help them by making government do its job so the terrifying specter of runaway price increases never returns. Our tax rate reductions have helped parents, reducing the tax bill that would have been owed by a typical family by over $900 a year. And we've helped parents by reducing the inflation rate by nearly two-thirds since 1980 and by creating more than 6 million new jobs. Things are getting better for American families, but much remains to be done. That's why the Treasury Department is making greater tax fairness and greater tax incentives for families a central consideration in the tax reform proposals they're developing. We're trying hard to help fathers and mothers in other ways, too. Many innocent children are exploited by those who traffic in the gutter of drugs, child pornography and prostitution. Last month I signed the Child Protection Act of 1984, a key part of our determination to crack down hard on the smut merchants. And this past week, we opened a National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to help educate parents and authorities on how to protect their loved ones. We've just launched a nationwide citizen effort to encourage volunteer, court-appointed special advocates in legal cases of neglect and child abuse. Soon, we'll start up a sophisticated detective program to help law enforcement officers identify and capture the so-called serial killers who prey upon women and children. And we've urged the Congress to pass a law that will strengthen and improve child support from absent parents. Children should not be financially abandoned just because they're separated from one of their parents. We're trying hard to make two other changes. We want to see fewer abandoned, handicapped, or underprivileged children left in perpetual foster care. And we want to see the unborn child given his or her chance to live and to know the joys of life. Adoption is often the best option. Too often, it's been the forgotten option. We're seeing hopeful signs that our policies are paying off. Family income is improving; infant mortality rates continue to drop. And the crime rate has taken a steep dive. The outlook for families in America is better today than in 1980. And we're determined to make it better still. Happy Father's Day. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week, we had some more good economic news. The economy grew by a revised 9.7 percent in real terms for the first quarter and an estimated 5.7 percent for this quarter. Both figures are better than had been predicted. The strength of our expansion continues to surprise experts and outperform past recoveries. The curious thing is that some experts treat this good newsstrong economic growthas a cause for worry. Well, the commonsense reaction is right. Good news is not bad, it's good. In some key ways this expansion is both different and more durable than those in the past. Stronger growth has enabled more people to find work and bring home paychecks, and it's improved the job outlook for the future. More people are working in America today than ever before. And the United States is creating more jobs at a faster rate than any other major industrialized country in the world, well over 6 million jobs in the last 18 months. In fact, we created more jobs in the month of May alone than all the Common Market countries created in the last 10 years. I remember back in 1983 when a bill was introduced in Congress aimed at creating 300,000 jobs a year by spending $3 1/2 billion of your tax money. Now, I said, "No, the private economy will do the job better." And it has done better, much better. Since the recovery began, our economy has been creating, on average, more jobs every month than that government program promised to create in 12 months. And the jobs are benefiting everyone. Nearly 3 million women, a million blacks, and 650,000 Hispanics have found new jobs. Recently, the National Federation of Independent Business said that among its small business membership, the percentage planning to hire new workers is the highest in 4 years. Since most new jobs are created by firms with a hundred employees or less, that small business survey bodes well for continued job gains in the future. So, economic growth is stronger than before, stronger than anyone expected, and jobs are being created at record rates. But something else makes this expansion different. Inflation is staying down, and we mean to keep it down. It was up only twotenths of 1 percent in May and only 4.2 percent over the last 12 months, barely a third of 1980's 12.4-percent rate. We've reduced inflationary pressures by reducing government spending growth, by promoting greater production through lower tax rates, and by spurring greater competition through the deregulation of key industries. Nor do we see signs that runaway price increases will reappear. This is the first time since the 1960's that we'll be able to enjoy strong and steady growth without high inflation. Another characteristic of this expansion gives it extra power while helping us fight inflation. Investment by U.S... businesses in new plants and equipment, so crucial to helping workers be more productive and to helping our industries better compete in world markets, has been rising at the fastest rate since 1949. We're witnessing an historic surge of innovation, risk taking, technological development, and productivity growth. American economic leadership is back. Now the question is why, and why here in America to a greater degree than anywhere else? Well, America began a fundamental change in direction in 1981; a change from a policy of government promises, a change from taxing you more no matter how hard you tried, to rewarding you for working harder and producing more than before. Personal incentives are changing America, restoring our spirit, strengthening our economy, giving us the opportunity and confidence to shape our future and make it work for us. And that's why I'm determined to finish the job we've begun by simplifying our tax system and broadening the base so we can bring personal income tax rates down further. If we can do that while keeping Federal spending under control, there'll be no stopping the United States. We all have a job to do to protect this expansion and keep the lid on inflation, which is the best guarantee against rising interest rates. The Congress must cooperate and restrain spending by passing the down payment deficit reduction package. The Federal Reserve must assure enough liquidity to finance the expansion without raising expectations of new inflation. And we must all work to make government live within its means. If we meet these responsibilities, today's good news will be here to stay, and America's best days will lie ahead. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
The President. My fellow Americans, this week the Congress passed, and I will soon sign, a series of measures to reduce budget deficits by about $63 billion over the next 3 fiscal years. My approval of these measures should not by any means be considered the final action on deficits this year. The Congress still has much work to do to achieve spending restraint and help our economic expansion continue. I stand ready to use my veto to make sure it fulfills that responsibility. Spending restraint and personal incentives for growth are the two greatest deficit reduction weapons we have. That's why the ultimate solution to budget deficits must be a mandatory restriction on the Congress' ability to spend and a simplification of the entire tax system, enabling us to broaden the tax base and lower personal income tax rates for all of you who work and earn. We're bound and determined to do this. But today I don't intend to go on talking about the economy. I have a special guest. Nancy is here with me, and she'd like to speak to you about the problem of drugs and what, together, all of us can do about the problem. Mrs. Reagan. Thank you, Ronnie. During the past 2 years, I've traveled throughout our country, and what I've seen happening to our children is terribly frightening. In fact, sometimes it seems as if we could lose a whole next generation to drug abuse. Cocaine, PCP, marijuana, alcohol, speedthese are the enemies of our children. They're cunning and treacherous and, oh, so very patient. As one former teenage alcoholic put it, "Alcohol will wait forever. It's always going to be there." And that child was right; which is why we must be there as well. And this enemy shows no mercy. It still sends a chill through me to recall a visit I made sometime ago to an elementary school in Atlanta. I asked the class of third graders how many had been offered drugs, and almost every hand went up. Many people still seem to think that substance abuse is something that happens to other families. There's a wall of denial that must be broken down. The truth is drugs and alcohol are everywhere available and everywhere abused. And now people are waking up to that fact. A 16-year-old girl, who described herself as a recovering drug addict, wrote me to say that she was one of the lucky ones. "I'm doing fine now," she said, "but last Christmas I was in the hospital weighing 87 pounds and not caring whether I lived or died. I only took drugs for a year, but I'm sure I had a problem as soon as I started. I dropped a lot of my old friends because I only wanted to be friends with kids who could get drugs for me. When I collapsed in a public park from malnutrition and exhaustion due to cocaine, my new friends didn't lift a finger to help me. If it hadn't been for my parents, who came looking for me, I wouldn't be alive today." Her letter isn't unusual. Other children have talked frankly to me about how young they were when they began to experiment with drugs and how school became little more than a place to buy dope and get high. Most parents were completely in the dark. They just didn't believe it could happen to their kids. Again, the wall of denial. But there maybe a light at the end of the tunnelsomething that fills me with hope about our children's future and about our country's future. We're finally becoming aware of the terrible problem of drugs. Three years ago there were only 1,000 volunteer parents groups organized to fight drug abuse. Today there are more than 4,000, and the number keeps growing. Yes, there is reason for hope. These are parents who have learnedsome the hard way-that the most effective answer to the tragedy of drugs is involvement and knowledge. And, too, now they know that discipline is something you do for a child, not to him. I'm asked so often what I think is the answer. And I always stress self-confidence, family communication, and active supervision. As a mother of a girl who was experimenting with LSD during the day and finishing a bottle of bourbon every night put it, "It's time for parents to take over and be parents again." Ronnie, I know you join me in the belief that if we all work together, become more involved in our children's lives and more knowledgeable, we can help save a generation and help preserve its promise and hope. The President. Well, I sure do know that, Nancy. And I can't imagine anything that could do more to brighten the skies of America's future. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk with you today about a subject that's been a priority since this administration's first day in officefighting crime in America. When we came to office, crime was taking the lives of over 23,000 Americans a year. It touched a third of American homes and resulted in about $10 billion a year in financial losses. Yet, just as America has regained her economic strength and international prestige in the last few years, so, too, the crime problem in America has shown improvement for the first time in many years. In recent speeches in Hartford, Connecticut, and San Antonio, Texas, I've pointed out that the 7-percent decrease in crime reported for last year is the sharpest decrease in the history of the crime statistics, and it marks the first time the serious crime index has shown a decline 2 years in a row. Of course we still have a long way to go; but this statistic does demonstrate that our efforts and those of State and local governments are finally having an impact on crime. At the State level, for example, numerous legislatures have passed tough new sentencing laws. And here at the Federal level, we've taken several critically important steps. First, from our first day in office, the Attorney General and I have emphasized the importance of appointing to the Federal bench, including the Supreme Court, judges determined to uphold the rights of society and the innocent victims as well as the rights of the accused. Second, we've launched an all-out assault on the illicit drug tradethat fever swamp of career criminals in America. Taking our cue from the success of our South Florida Task Force, we've brought aboard more than 1,200 new investigators and prosecutors and established 12 regional task forces throughout the United States to crack down on the big money drug traffickers. The results of that effort have been encouraging. The drug task forces have initiated 620 cases; they've indicted more than 2,600 individuals; and 143 of these indictments have been under the "Drug Kingpin" law, which carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. Third, we've launched a full-scale offensive on the home ground of career criminalsorganized crime itself. Organized crime arrests have nearly tripled, and confiscation of their assets is also sharply up. Our new commission on organized crime has brought much needed public attention to this problem, and as soon as it receives subpoena power, it will do even more. Believe me, we in the administration have been trying to speak up for you, the millions of Americans who are fed up with crime, fed up with fear in our streets and neighborhoods, fed up with lenient judges, fed up with a criminal justice system that too often treats criminals better than it does their victims. Too many Americans have had to suffer the effects of crime while too many of our leaders have stuck to the old, discredited, liberal illusions about crimeillusions that refuse to hold criminals responsible for their actions. For example, I wonder how many of you know that the major part of our legislative initiative against crime remains right where it's remained for the last 3 years, dead in the water in the House of Representatives. Now, our crime package includes bills calling for bail reform, tougher sentencing, justice assistance to States and localities, improvement in the exclusionary rule and the insanity defense, and major reforms affecting drug trafficking, prison crowding, capital punishment, and forfeiture. All of these reforms are badly needed and constitutionally sound. In fact, our core crime package has already passed the Senate once by a vote of 91 to 1. But in the House of Representatives, the liberal leadership keeps it bottled up in committee. I told a group of Texas lawyers yesterday, we're not about to quit on our crime bill. We're going to do what we've done in the past. We're going out to the heartland, and we're taking our case to you, the people. And so, I'm asking for your help today. Please send a message to the House leadership. Tell them to stop kowtowing to the special interests and start listening to you, the American people. Americans want this anticrime legislation, and they want it now. And if those of you listening will lend a hand, we can get it now. Please tell your elected representatives you expect full and fair representation, and that means getting this bill out of committee and onto the floor of the House for a vote. We've made real progress against crime in the last few years. Together, we can keep up the good work. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about our environment. But as I mentioned earlier this week, in doing so I might be letting you in on a little secretas a matter of fact, one of the best-kept secrets in Washington. More than 15 years ago, the State of California decided that we needed to take action to combat the smog that was choking the beautiful cities of my home State. Out of that concern was born the first serious program to require manufacturers to build cleaner cars and help control air pollution. The auto industry had to build two kinds of carsone that would be for sale in the other 49 States and one that would meet the stiff antipollution standards required in California. We had other concerns in California, such as protecting our magnificent and unique coastline. And we took the lead in that area as well. It took the rest of the Nation a few years to catch on, but in 1970 the Congress followed California's lead and enacted the Clean Air Act. Other laws to protect and clean up the Nation's lakes and rivers were passed, and America got on with the job of protecting the environment. Part of the secret I mentioned is that I happened to have been Governor of California back when much of this was being done. Now, obviously, neither the problems in California nor those nationally have been solved, but I'm proud of having been one of the first to recognize that States and the Federal Government have a duty to protect our natural resources from the damaging effects of pollution that can accompany industrial development. The other part of the well-kept secret has to do with the environmental record of our administration, which is one of achievement in parks, wilderness land, and wildlife refuges. According to studies by the Environmental Protection Agency, the quality of our air and water has continued to improve during our administration. In many big cities, the number of days on which pollution alerts are declared has gone down. And if you live near a river, you may have noticed that the signs have been coming down that used to warn people not to fish or swim. We came to Washington committed to respect the great bounty and beauty of God's creation. We believe very strongly in the concept of stewardship, caring for the resources we have so they can be shared and used productively for generations to come. And we've put that philosophy to work, correcting deficiencies of past policies and advancing long-overdue initiatives. Let me give you some facts that our critics never seem to remember. When we took office in 1980, we faced a dusty shelf of reports which pointed out our predecessors had been so busy spending money on new lands for parks that they seriously neglected basic upkeep of the magnificent parks we had. So, we temporarily put off acquiring new parkland and started a new billion-dollar, 5-year program to repair and modernize facilities at our national parks and wildlife refuges. If you've been to just about any national park lately, you've probably seen the results. We've nearly finished repairing the damage from years of neglect, and I've asked the Congress for almost $160 million to resume buying lands to round out our national park and refuge systems. We also took the lead in developing a new approach to protecting some 700 miles of undeveloped coastal areasthe dunes, beaches, and barrier islands that are some of our most beautiful and productive natural resources. Now, there are some who want you to believe that commitment to protecting the environment can be measured by comparing the budgets of EPA under the previous administration with those proposed and approved by the Congress under my administration. But they deliberately ignore that the major Federal environmental laws are designed to be carried out by the States in partnership with EPA. By the time the clean air, clean water, and other big programs put in place in the early 1970's moved into their second decade, the States had largely taken over the job formerly performed by the Federal Government. With the successful delegation to the States, EPA, under the leadership of Bill Ruckelshaus, has been freed to move on to the challenges of the 1980'ssuch as cleaning up abandoned toxic waste dumps. Under our administration, funding for the Superfund cleanup program will have increased from just over a hundred million dollars in 1981 to $620 million in 1985. By the end of this year, EPA expects to have undertaken more than 400 emergency actions to remove and contain public health hazards. And because we recognize that we need to do more cleanup work than the current law provides, I'm committed to seeking an extension of the Superfund program. As I said, our progress on protecting the environment is one of the best-kept secrets in Washington. But it's not, by far, the only secret. And I'll have more on that in the months ahead. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday we marked the 15th anniversary of the first manned landing on the Moon. We all remember that great moment when Neil Armstrong said, "Tranquility Base here. The Eagle has landed." But that wasn't our last great moment in space. In fact, it's become increasingly clear that most of our great moments are ahead of us. For 25 years, we approached space with a certain amount of derring-do. It was the last frontier, and we would be its first pioneers. Space seemed like a vast, black desert, but now we're ready to make the desert bloom. I'm talking about opening space up to business, to private enterprise; opening space up to commerce and experimentation and development. Why? To improve the quality of life on Earth. We've learned in the past few years that in the zero gravity of space it's possible to manufacture drugs and pharmaceuticals of a purity much greater than is possible on Earthand in much greater quantities. The zero gravity of space is allowing us in the space shuttle and soon in a manned space station to experiment with new drugs and new cures for diseases. Do you have a friend or relative with diabetes? Some scientists believe that in space it's possible they may be able to produce a cure for diabetes within the next decade. In space we also find new opportunities for important breakthroughs in cancer research. Now, cancer research is one of those phrases that to some people means we're still thinking and getting nowhere. But a number of scientists now believe that a cure for some types of cancer might be produced in space sometime in the not-too-distant future. That's not all. In space we can manufacture crystals that have many times the yield and purity of those made on Earth. These will help maintain America's leadership in the computer industry. We can also develop new metals that are lighter and stronger than any we've ever known. So, the promise and the potential are there. And private industry, private research groups, medical groups, and all sorts of businesses want to get up into space and invest. But it's very costly. It'll involve long-term investment, commitment, and imagination. For the past year now, our administration has been studying ways to encourage private investment and development. And we've come up with a number of new initiatives to achieve that goal. These initiatives don't involve a special interest treatment of any sort. What they come down to is a policy designed to do away with laws that inadvertently discriminate against companies that do business in space rather than on the ground. We also want to make sure these companies are not stymied by needless regulation. For example, the way the law is written now, products made in space might be subject to import tariffs because they weren't made in America. Well, we're going to change that. Another example: Businesses which operate at home receive various kinds of tax incentives. But, again, as the laws are written now, space products companies would not receive those incentives. We'll be looking at that, too. Also, to encourage research and development, we've been working in partnership with industry and academia to expand basic research opportunities, achieve new breakthroughs, and give U.S.. companies making space-age products a boost on the way to the marketplace. As our country moves into high-tech industries, space will be a big part of the future. As space-related businesses take off, the economy will benefit. Ultimately, it could well mean tens of thousands of jobs, billions of dollars in new foreign trade, and tens of billions of dollars added to the gross national product. Some of our new initiatives will be accomplished through Executive order. Others will require congressional action. We're confident that these measures will win considerable support. I'm proud of our work in this area, of our ability to recognize what private companies have recognized: that we have cultivated space for the past 25 years, and now is the harvest time. Now is the time to reap the practical fruits of all that daring. You know, we've been hearing a lot lately from politicians who keep talking about how dark the future is. Well, I think the narrowness of their vision stems from a kind of blindness to the adventure that technology continues to offer us. Those folks have such a strangled sense of possibilities. But in space, the possibilities are endless. It's good news for all mankind and for our country. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There are many serious things that will occupy our attention in the coming weeks and in the fall, but today I find my thoughts turning away from politics to something equally important, but happy, too. Eleven weeks ago, I greeted the Olympic torch when it was carried to the White House by a young man, a fine young athlete who had carried it high for almost a mile. Today the torch arrives in Los Angeles, and I'm thinking of what a journey it knew, and what a country it traveled through. The journey started in the East, in Manhattan, in front of the United Nations. From there it arced South and West, and passed from person to person in a marvelous relay. It was carried by former Olympians and handicapped kids, by elderly women and young athletes bright with the speed of youth. They held the torch high and passed the flame on to one another. They took it up hills and through lonely towns in the darkness, along gray highways at twilight and through bright towns at noon. They carried it past the malls and the airports, through the suburbs and cities, up the hills of steel towns, and along the flat routes of America's heartland. They carried it through the gathering heat of the West in early summer, and they took it to Los Angeles, where today the torch lights the Olympic flame and the games begin. Everywhere the torch went people came out of their homes and poured into the streets to cheer and wave the flag and urge the runners on. This outpouring reflected, I think, the new patriotism that has swept our land. So much of that new spirit involves our young people. It's seemed to me for some time now that there's a spirit of renewal among the young. It's as if they understand the future is great and huge and waiting for them. They seem to know once again that America is worth loving, worth caring about. They seem to take a quiet pride in all this nation was and is; they show a happiness with our country that's wonderful to see. I think we can hear and discern in their music these days, certainly more than in the past, an optimism and a feeling of affection for our nation. And there are the young people who will represent America in the games themselves. They, too, show a marvelous spirit. They represent our country not in some kind of narrow, nationalist sense, but in a wider sense: They reflect the things we taught them about human conduct and human effortall the good things they learned on the playing fields and at the gym, on the city streets and in the playgrounds of America. In those places they learned that the pursuit of excellence is a fine thing in and of itself, and the elusive pursuit of perfection is one of the things that makes man human. They learned that you play by the rules, with a sense of fairness and generosity, that you don't cheat, and that you take both victory and defeat with the same kind of grace and dignity. Our young athletes deserve great credit. They were born with great giftsGod blessed them with the physical talent that made it possible for them to compete in sports. But after thatafter the original giftafter that it was all effort. To become champions they had to work hard, with discipline and desire and no small amount of tenacity. What they are and what they've done gives us a lift. It's always inspiring when we see young men and women try to resist gravity, to fight fatigue, to, in the words of the first astronauts, push out the edge of the envelope-push out of the things that hold us down and push on to new possibilities, new records. Today it begins, and our athletes are ready. They will stand there, over the next few days; they'll poise themselves on the blocks, stand at the edge of the diving board, or stand with their toes on the line and wait for the shot to goand they'll know they're not alone. They'll hear the roar of the crowds, the great substantial cheer of the crowds, andwho knows?if they listen close, maybe they'll hear the sound of Jesse Owens cheering, Babe Didrikson and Jim Thorpe, maybe they'll hear the cheers of all the young American athletes who once stood on the blocks waiting for the race to begin. Our young people are running for their country, running for greatness, for achievement, for that moving thing in man that makes him push on to the impossible. The torch is passed; the games begin; the 23d Olympiad of the modern era commences. And as it does, just for a moment, we think of the words of the psalms: "This is the day which the Lord has made; Let us rejoice and be glad .... " Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Lately, you may have heard a lot of talk about a so-called secret plan to raise your taxes. Well, I've made it clear that we have no such plan. But apparently, such a plan exists, nonetheless. It's not our plan; it's not yours. It's the plan of the Democratic nominee for President. When he accepted the Democratic nomination, he declared that he will increase your taxes. He said it several times since. But he still hasn't said exactly how. He has, however, come close to saying how much he would raise your taxes. It takes a little calculation, but here's how it all adds up. The Democratic nominee has said he accepts deficit projections of over $200 billion a year, as far as the eye can see. Now, I don't accept them. And if we can keep our economy growing strongly, no one will have to. But he says he accepts them. On top of those deficit projections, the Democratic nominee says he would add new government spending. How much? Well, he says his increases would total about $30 billion per year. Senator John Glenn, on the other hand, said the cost of the Democratic nominee's promises would really come to somewhere between $90 and $170 billion. The Wall Street Journal reported estimates of experts that the amount of increased spending would come closer to $90 billion. So, let's use that for working purposes. The Democratic nominee says he will make some budget cuts. He says he'll cut defense, health care, and agriculture programs by a total of $55 billion to $65 billion. And although his plan isn't likely to produce them, he says he expects interest savings of $15 billion to $20 billion. Now, that would bring his total savings to less than $90 billion. So, when you add it all up, the Democratic nominee's savings, assuming he would achieve them, still don't quite add up to enough to pay for the likely cost of his promises. And the deficits would be even higher than he assumes, except for one thingthere's another element to all this, another promise. The Democratic nominee says he'll cut those deficits by two-thirds. How? By raising taxes. He says he estimates increased taxes of "at least $60 billion." He says he would get these by doing such things as deferring indexation, capping the third year of your tax cut, and adding a tax surcharge-all supposedly targeted at higher income taxpayers. Well, the truth is he'd need an increase of more than twice $60 billion, an increase of $135 billion square with his promises. That $1,500 in increased taxes for every can household, and one way or another, that means you. It's the same tired old formula-tax and tax to spend and spend. I think the Democratic nominee owes the American people not a partial explanation, but a full explanation of how and where he expects to get that $1,500 more per household, over $135 billion in increased taxes. That's the secret that should be brought to light. My approach to deficit reduction is entirely different, and it's no secret. We should reduce deficits first and foremost by continuing our economic growth and by reducing wasteful government spending. Through the Grace commission, for example, we've developed 2,478 recommendations of possible ways to reduce spending without hurting the needy. These recommendations are no secret. We've made them public. We've already begun to implement almost 20 percent of them. We're still completing our review of the rest, but they're there for all to see, and every one that is worth implementing will be implemented. As for taxes, my approach there is also well-known and no secret. We have already reduced personal income tax rates for all Americans by 25 percent. That has not only lightened your burden, it's helped give us the strong economic growth, without inflation, that we now enjoy. Our tax cuts have meant more money for you to spend and invest and for you to save and use as you wish; more money to create jobs and expand the economy. I mean to keep that growth going and not stifle it with a new burden of taxes. And I mean to simplify the tax system and broaden its base so that we can bring income tax rates further down, not up. That, too, is no secret. I announced it in this year's State of the Union Address to the Congress. Finally, let me tell you one more thing that should be no secret in case the Democrats talk of so-called secret plans has you worried. I will propose no increase in personal income taxes, and I will veto any tax bill that would raise personal tax rates for working Americans or that would fail to make our tax system simpler or more fair. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm pleased to tell you that today I signed legislation that will allow student religious groups to begin enjoying a right they've too long been deniedthe freedom to meet in public high schools during nonschool hours, just as other student groups are allowed to do. This has been given the shorthand label "equal-access legislation." You might remember that I recently asked the House Democratic leadership to permit a vote on equal access and to permit votes on five other legislative measures important to you and your families that they, the Democratic leadership, had bottled up. Well, the Congress recessed yesterday, and the House Democratic leaders are returning to their districts. Some of these leaders and other Democrats have been campaigning on what they call their "new realism." But before they give too many speeches about all the wise things they promise to do for America, I want to give you a little report card on what they in fact did door, rather, did not doas their new realism was put to the test. Of those six important pieces of legislation we requested, specific measures to help reduce deficits, reward hard work and thrift, make your neighborhoods and cities safer, and increase personal liberties, only one was voted onthe equal-access bill. Equal access was only voted on after a majority of the House, led by the late Carl D. Perkins, defied the Democratic leadership, which continued to resist right up to the bitter end. Of the remaining five proposals to test the new realism, not one was brought to a vote. So much for the test of the new realism. If the Democrats were given a report card, one out of six right would have meant a failing grade, a red letter "F." When the Democratic leadership keeps saying no to America, they show how far they are from new realism and how far they've drifted from mainstream thinking. We asked for a vote on a constitutional amendment mandating a balanced Federal budget. We will insist that the Congress move toward a balanced budget, not by imposing new taxes on your families, but by spending within its means and allowing economic growth to continue. The overwhelming majority of Americans agree with this position, but the House Democratic leaders don't. They don't want spending restraint, because their party has made so many campaign promises, promises they intend to fund by raising your taxes more than $1,500 per household. We asked for a vote on our enterprise zones bill to provide incentives for people to invest, work, hire, and start up new businesses in economically distressed areas. This measure has been passed twice by the Republican Senate. It's supported by a majority of Members in the House, including many Democrats, and by a broad coalition of community leaders. We're ready to designate 75 zones to create opportunity, independence, and hope for our neediest citizens. But the Democratic leadership said no. We asked for a vote on our proposal granting spouses working in the home the same individual retirement right, IRA's, as spouses working outside the home. Each could save and exclude from taxation up to $2,000 a year. The House Democratic leadership said no. We asked for a vote allowing tuition tax credits for low- and middle-income parents who pay to send their children to parochial or independent schools, while also paying their full share of taxes to support public schools. The House Democratic leadership said no. And we asked for action on our comprehensive anticrime package to crack down on criminals through new restrictions on bail, tougher sentencing, and stricter enforcement of drug trafficking laws. This bill passed the Senate 91 to 1, but the House Democratic leadership said no. You might be interested to know what House Speaker Tip O'Neill has called these proposals for a balanced budget, expanded IRA's, enterprise zones, tuition tax credits, tougher law enforcement, and equal access for students. He says they're "a right-wing agenda." Does the Democratic leadership truly believe that common sense in budgeting and greater opportunity and security for people is a right-wing agenda? The Presidential nominee of the Democratic Party and his running mate could have asked the Speaker to give democracy a chancecould have, but didn't. They, too, said no. All this has gotten me to thinking about a great Democrat. Just 36 years ago, Harry Truman called the 80th Congress the "do-nothing Congress." One thing is sure: Harry Truman wasn't afraid of the American people. He wasn't afraid of democracy, of putting issues to the test of a vote. Were he with us now, I think he would relish the chance to run against those who proclaim a new realism and then do nothing. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Something very bright and happy and hopeful has been happening across our country in recent days. We've watched a grateful nation shower its affection on those who showered us with gloryour Olympic athletes. Theirs was a triumph of faith and hope. In honoring them, ours has been a celebration of the new patriotism. Nancy and I saw our athletes in Los Angeles the day after the Olympics ended. You could just feel their joy and energy. And when our famous gymnast, Mary Lou Retton, stood on her toes to give me a hug, I couldn't help thinking, "How can anyone not believe in the dream of America?" Now, I've been accused of being an optimist, and it's true. All my life I've seen that when people like Mary Lou have a dream, when they have the courage and opportunity to work hard, when they believe in the power of faith and hope, they not only perform great feats, they help pull all of us forward as well. Somehow, the idea that American progress begins with spirit and a willingness of the heart was ignored during the 1970's. The intellectual establishment was so busy demanding more power for government, more bureaucracy, regulation, spending andoh, yesmore and more taxes, they forgot all about the secret of America's successopportunity for people, for all the people. When the economy reached the point of collapse by the end of the seventies, they began talking about our crisis of spirit, about our malaise. But we hadn't given up hope; we just hadn't been allowed to hope. So, when we came to Washington in 1981, we said, "Let us renew our faith and our hope. We have every right to dream heroic dreams." We put together an economic recovery program that made a radical break with past policies. For the first time since the administration of John Kennedy, we cut tax rates significantly for every working American. We told the people, "America's destiny is back in your hands. If you work harder and earn more than before, your reward will be greater than it was." But from the beginning, the old-guard establishment-people who still make policy from abstract statistics, theories, and models rather than looking at the reality of human behaviorhave filled the airwaves with gloom, predicting our program couldn't meet our goals. And from the beginning, they've been wrong: When they said inflation and interest rates wouldn't come down, when they said recovery wouldn't come, when they said the expansion wouldn't last, and when they said the deficit wouldn't come down. Recently, many liberal analysts have been reviewing our record and our prospects. Their message remains: "hasn't worked; can't be done." So, when the Urban Institute came out with a study a few days ago, it was only natural that some of the press would look for the same old doom and gloom. For example, they didn't report that the study also said elderly Americans have clearly done better under our policies with real gains in disposable incomes, nor that the social safety net is still largely intact for the nonworking poor. Even the Urban Institute said there is no evidence that working welfare mothers who have been eliminated from the rolls are quitting their jobs to requalify for benefits, and that despite all the furor, it finds surprisingly few changes from 1980 with respect to the environmental, public lands, and water resources activities of the Federal Government. And no one seems to mention that the centerpiece of our policy, the tax cut, was not fully in place until 1983. Our program has just begun. But let's look at the record since it has: over 6 million jobs created; a surge in investment and productivity; a record 600,000 business incorporations; the biggest increase in real after-tax personal income since 1973; and perhaps most important, a new spirit of optimism and confidence about America's future. It's clear that once people get a chance to show what they can dowell, America got well and got strong. What isn't clear is why those pessimists, with so little faith in people, so little understanding of incentives, and so many bad predictions, are not more humble and not treated a little more skeptically by the media. In 1984 we face an historic choice. Will we heed the pessimists' agenda of higher taxes, more bureaucracy, and a bigger welfare state leading us right back to runaway inflation and economic decay, or will we continue on our new road toward a true opportunity society of economic growth, more jobs, lower tax rates, and rising takehome pay? I believe the spirit we've seen during and after these Olympics reveals something very important about America. We believe in ourselves, we're hungry for real opportunity, and we're up to any challenge. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The campaign of 1984 is underway. This campaign is about what it was like 4 years ago and what it's like today. But even more important, it's about the future. I believe our Republican Party is the true party of the future because our vision, ideas, and proposals seek to bring out the best in America by challenging the best in our people. The Great Opportunity Party believes in challenging people to do better. The Democratic leadership still insists on challenging government to grow bigger. Our vision of a strong, secure future rests on our confidence that Americans can continue making progress toward four specific goals: strong, steady economic growth; developing the frontiers of science, high technology, and space; strengthening our community of shared values; and building an enduring peace. As a nation, we've already begun meeting the challenges we set forth 4 years ago. I won't rehash all the problems we faced, but from a collapsing economy to weakening defenses, to rising rates of crime and poor educational performance, it was clear that America was in deep trouble. We were being led by a group of pessimists whose ideas had been threadbare for years and they hadn't even noticed. The realities of a changing world had long since passed them by. We said if America is to be a successful leader in the world again, we must face up to the problems that have dragged us down. And we must begin doing that by trusting the people again. We said that together, we must meet the challenges of reducing the growth of government, bringing down inflation and interest rates, and cutting tax rates to create jobs and get our economy moving againand America has. We said we must restore America's ability to defend itself and fulfill its responsibilities as a trustee of freedom and peace in the worldand America has. We met our challenges before, and we can meet them again. As for our first goaleconomic growth-our position is clear. We've seen from the mistakes of the past and from the recent recovery that our economy grows best when earnings flow not to government, but stay with the people and in the economy. That's why we must meet the challenge of simplifying our tax system, making it more fair, easier to understand, so we can bring personal tax rates further down, not up. With strong economic growth, we'll continue bringing down deficits. We must also control spending, and one tool is a constitutional amendment mandating that government spend no more than government takes in. Another is a line-item veto, so that a President can veto specific spending requests without vetoing an entire appropriations bill. Until the leadership of the Democratic party supports these two long-overdue reforms, they should close their mouths forever about budget deficits. Our second goaldeveloping America's next frontiers in science and high technology and into the far reaches of spacewill enable us to surge forward on the crest of progress and peaceful change. We have it within our power to make astonishing advances in technology and medicine, and that will make us a more competitive, successful, and healthy people. Our greatest resources and hope for the future are the minds and hearts of our people. That's why our third great goal is to help revive America's traditional values: faith, family, neighborhood, work, and freedom. Government has no business enforcing these values, but neither must it seek, as it did in the recent past, to suppress or replace them. That only robbed us of our tiller and sent us adrift. Helping restore these values will bring new strength, direction, and dignity to our lives and to the life of our nation. It's on these values that we'll best build a future. Finally, we must continue meeting the challenge of working for a more peaceful world in which individual liberty can flourish. Today we're at peace, and this is good. I've seen four wars in my lifetime. I remember Pope Paul VI saying to the United Nations: "No more war. War never again." To continue the peace we enjoy, we must show clear support for our allies and exhibit strength and steadiness to those who wish us ill. Setting goals, meeting challenges, striving for excellence are key to the endless possibilities the future holds in store for America. It's not for the Federal Government to set those goals, but we can help challenge Americans to challenge themselves in all areas of their lives and, like our Olympic athletes, to reach for greatness. I'll be speaking more to you about this in the days ahead. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This weekend marks the 90th observance of Labor Day, a well-deserved tribute to the working men and women whose dreams and hard work helped build America into the greatest Nation in the world. We know that what is good for the American worker is good for America. And as we prepare for a new season of work, I believe there's good reason for giving a hopeful thumbs up. The outlook on Labor Day weekend 1984 is for a continuation of strong, steady economic growth, more jobs, and low inflation. We still have great challenges to meet, which I'll speak about in a moment. But we should also recognize the progress we've made together. It's an important source of confidence and inspiration for our future. In the last 19 months, the jobless rate has fallen farther and faster then any recovery in the last 30 years. We've seen the creation of 6 1/2 million new jobs. The United States has created, on average, more jobs each month than all the Common Market countries combined in the last 10 years. The Europeans are calling our success the American miracle. A case in point is the automobile industry. Unemployment peaked at 28 percent in 1980. By this July, auto industry unemployment was down to 6.1 percent, and there were 153,000 more people at work in auto industry jobs than 4 years ago. A key reason the job growth has been so strong is our success in keeping inflation down. We haven't seen unemployment and inflation drop during any term since the Kennedy administration. And we're determined to bring inflation further down, just as we're determined to simplify our tax system so we can bring your tax rates further down, not up, as my opponent would do, harming the growth and progress we've made. With inflation and tax rates down, the American miracle can continue: interest rates can come down further; peoples' earnings can continue to buy more; investment and productivity can keep on growing; new businesses can develop new products and markets; more jobs can be created; and all Americans can share in a dynamic, exciting future. Our future can be one of boundless opportunity if we challenge the limits of growth through reforms like tax simplification and fight inflation by passing two longoverdue reforms: the balanced budget spending limitation amendment and the line-item veto. We must also meet the challenge of pushing back our newest frontiers of science, high technology, and space. It's been estimated that high technology industries create jobs eight times as fast as low technology industries. Just as important, the knowledge we gain from the technological revolution enables our older industries to modernize their plants and equipment, increase their ability to compete in the world, and maintain and expand their work force. Our citizens need training to step into these jobs, and that's why we initiated the Job Training Partnership Act. That act will train more than i million people a year to become productive, self-supporting citizens in the private economy. One sure way to spur jobs through new technology is by promoting more research. On Thursday morning I visited the employees of Goddard Space Flight Center and assured them our administration will continue its strong support for research and development, particularly in our universities. Between 1981 and '85, Federal investment in basic research will have increased by almost 30 percent in real terms. The importance of research work in universities reminds us that we must go forward with our agenda for excellence in education so today's students at the elementary and secondary school level can go on to college and acquire the knowledge to work in our rapidly changing world. At the same time, we must stimulate economic development in inner city areas that have not benefited from technological innovation or the economic expansion. We've proposed enterprise zones, offering strong incentives for people to start up new businesses in up to 75 areas of high unemployment, and a youth employment opportunity wage to open up job opportunities and reduce the high levels of teenage unemployment, especially among black youth. Both enterprise zones and the youth employment opportunity wage would reduce dependencyproviding new hope for millionsand they're supported by a broad coalition of minorities. But both have been blocked by the Democratic House leadership, the very people who profess compassion. Americans aspiring to lift themselves up should never be held down by partisan politics. We will keep our economy strong, and we will not rest until it can bring a job to the home of every American. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Young people across the country returned to school this week. The approach of autumn marks the end of the year, but somehow it always seems to be a time of new beginnings in the home and the workplace and in the classroom. We've seen a great resurgence of interest in how our public schools run the past few years. We've seen a new seriousness about the importance of education in our lives. You may remember when a commission we appointed almost 3 years ago to study the state of our schools concluded that if another country had done to our schools what we ourselves did to them, we would be justified in calling it an act of war. But already things are beginning to turn around. It's been one of those great American stories, a little like how neighbors used to band together to raise a house out of the wilderness. Teachers and school principals and school boards have joined with parents and local community leaders to turn things around. Scholastic aptitude test scores are turning up. Academic performance is up, and more parents are showing confidence in the schools. Forty-two percent of Americans now grade their local schools with an "A" or "B," and that's up 11 percent since last year. A number of schools are leading this academic renewal. Katahdin High School up at Sherman Station, Maine, was named by the Department of Education as an exemplary school. At Katahdin, they encourage students and teachers to work together and understand each other's problems. They have firm disciplinary rules. Teachers feel they have a say in how the school is run. They can get the supplies they need. And they're looking to the future. This little school of 260 students has seven computers. Then there's Jefferson High School in Los Angeles, a big city school with 2,000 students, most of them Hispanic or black. Principal Francis Nakano came to Jefferson 2 years ago and found walls full of graffiti and halls full of unruly youngsters. But Nakano turned it around. He started with discipline-fast, firm, and fair. He overhauled the buildings to create a climate for learning. He encouraged learning, recognizing and giving honors to the school's best scholars and helping slow learners with a special program that has them sign a personal contract accepting responsibility for their own progress in return for special, individual instruction. These are just two schools that are a part of our national renewal in education. But what we're doing isn't enough; we've got to do better. I propose that this week the young people starting school and their parents and future employers accept some challenges, and they'll be tough challenges, the type you have to meet by yourself. First challenge: Before this decade is out, we should regain at least half of what we lost in the sixties and seventies on scholastic aptitude test scores. As I said before, those scores are inching their way up, but not fast enough. Now, if you think that "I can't do anything to help," you're wrong. If you're a student who will take the scholastic aptitude test this year, study hard and do your very best. You can help lift our national average. Second, violence and disorder have no place in our schools. Parents worry about it, and so do many children. Before this decade is out, we should reduce crime in the schools so much that it becomes a mere anecdote in studies about our schools. Third, there's the problem of dropouts. Our high school dropout rate is now 27 1/2 percent. I propose that before this decade is out the public schools of this country reduce the dropout rate to 10 percent or less. You know, when a girl or boy drops out of school, we tend to think the child failed the system. But I wonder sometimes if it isn't also true that the system failed the child. Sometimes they just need that extra little bit of care and motivation. There's one other great challenge I want to speak to you about: watching too much TV. Now, I don't want to sound like a scolding parent, but time given to a television show that ought to be given to a school book is time badly used. TV is entertaining and sometimes educational. It's part of the fabric of our lives. But watching TV is passive, it's not living life. Life involves effort and growth. You won't grow by watching a situation comedy, though you can grow by reading a book. I hope we aren't becoming a nation of watchers, because what made us great is that we've always been a nation of doers. A dynamic and secure American future requires keeping today's economic expansion strong for tomorrow. And to meet that challenge, we must begin meeting these crucial educational challenges today. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When I set out on this campaign, I said this election would offer one of the clearest choices in 50 years. One major element in that choice is simply this: whether America will continue to champion the great, driving idea for your futureeconomic growth through individual opportunityor whether our nation will return to the past and stifle that growth. We're determined to keep the mighty engine of this nation revved up to build a future of lasting economic growth without inflation that reaches every American from the Bronx to Birmingham to San Francisco Bay. All that we've done and all that we mean to do is to make our free country freer still, to bring to each of you greater opportunities to build that stronger future. We believe opportunity is the true engine of progress, the captain of great endeavors. And that's why we asked you in 1981 to give America a new beginningwhy we fought for and won a 25-percent tax rate reduction for everyone; tax indexing to keep inflation from pushing you into higher tax brackets; estate tax reductions for family farms and small businesses; a reduction in the marriage penalty tax; an increase in the child care tax credit; deregulation of banking, allowing a higher rate of return for small savers and new incentives for IRA's and Keogh contributions. These incentives are sweeping fresh winds of progress across America. Along with restraints on government spending and regulating, they're bringing America the strongest surge of economic growth, jobs, business investment, and spendable income since the 1950's. We're no longer talking about promises, but about progress. But while that progress is a welcome change from the past, it won't be good enough until everyone can share it. So, when people ask, "Where do we go from here?", my answer is, "Forward, with more opportunity for more growth for all Americans." We're seeing proof that rewarding people who work and invest and save to get ahead is creating stronger growth and, in turn, helping still more people to find jobs and build a better life. So, we want to take this idea of incentives a big step further. We want to enact an historic simplification of our tax system, make the system more fair, easier to understand, so we can bring everybody's income tax rates further down, not up. Next, we want to put the power of incentives to work in distressed areas of our cities and countryside. We want to establish enterprise zones where taxes and regulations would be cut for anyone starting up or expanding a business. Imagine ghettos across America with people off welfare working to support their families. Imagine their families living in more secure neighborhoods with less crime, feeling hopeful again about their future. Enterprise zones can do this for America. To make a free country freer still, we want to ensure that those who produce our food and fiber have markets for their products. We've made a good start. Already, we've ended the last administration's disastrous grain embargo, restored grain sales to the Soviets with over 23 million metric tons sold in the last year, given them the go-ahead this week to buy up to 10 million tons more, and reached an agreement with Japan to virtually double our beef exports over the next 4 years. So, you have a clear choice in 1984. To every American we offer new opportunity, lower tax rates, more jobs, rising take-home pay, and a brighter future for everyone. My opponent offers the biggest single tax increase in our history, $85 billion per year, he says, but really much more if his promises are fully funded. All told, his tax increase could amount to an additional tax of $1,800 per household, a giant stop sign that would bring America's economic growth and your opportunities for the future screeching to a halt. His plan would take us back to the worst misery index of the past. Ours would enable all of us to go forward together and build new opportunity for the future. We're really talking about two different worlds. They see America wringing her hands; we see America raising her hands. They see America divided by envy, each of us challenging our neighbor's success; we see America inspired by opportunity, each of us challenging the best in ourselves. We believe in knowing when opportunity knocks; they seem determined only to knock opportunity. I think Americans are saying: Don't hold us back. Give us a chance and watch how high we fly. And that's just what we want to help you do. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When we took office in 1981, our goal was to help all of you build a new era of lasting economic growth without inflation. And we're getting closer. For the first time since the 1960's, America is enjoying strength in economic growth, business investment, productivity, and the creation of new jobs6 million in the last 20 months-while at the same time, we're keeping inflation down. Yesterday we learned that inflation for the last 12 months remains at 4.2 percent, only a third of 1980's 12.4 percent. We're enjoying an historic economic renewal. We can be proud of our accomplishments, but we can't and won't be satisfied until this expansion reaches every sector of our economy. Two sectors in which millions seek their livelihood, steel and agriculture, have not shared fully in the recovery. This week we took additional action to help people in both steel and agriculture help themselves, so they can work their way out of difficulty and become full partners in our economic expansion, helping all of us build a stronger future. The American steel industry, as you know, has been struggling through hard times in recent years. The steel companies and their workers have been trying hard to save their industry by cutting costs and modernizing their aging plants and equipment. And we've been trying to help. Our tax reduction, passed in 1981, encourages just such business investments to modernize smokestack America. The industry is beginning to recover, but it's still climbing uphill on the international playing field. In some cases, new technology has simply reduced the need for steel products. But the industry has also been hurt by foreign subsidies and an overproduction of steel worldwide, with foreign imports biting into the U.S. steel industry's share of our domestic market, making the United States a kind of steel dump for the rest of the world. Well, that simply isn't acceptable, so we've designed a comprehensive plan to cover the entire steel industry and enable us to take swift, effective action to keep the U.S. from being foreign countries' dumping ground. I've instructed Ambassador Bill Brock, our international trade representative, to meet with representatives of those nations dumping steel and to seek their agreement to stop such practices. And I've made it clear that, as necessary, we'll initiate strong counteractions to defend American firms and workers from predatory practices of other nations. Taken together, these actions can be expected to bring down the percentage of steel imports from its current 26 percent to about 18 1/2 percent, excluding semifinished products. And they'll enable our steel producers to continue their modernization and compete on a level playing field again. One thing I'm not doing, for it would damage our economy more than it would help, is imposing import quotas. That kind of protectionism is my opponent's policy and, just like his tax increase, it's the wrong policy. The lessons of history are clear. The costs of protectionism for one group would automatically be passed on to another. Inflation would be reignited, jobs would be destroyed, not saved, and foreign countries would retaliate against our exporters, like our farmers. And America doesn't need that kind of help. I'm confident our plan will help steel producers rebuild and become stronger, more competitive, and profitable again. And that's how we're trying to help our farmers, as well. We've ended the last administration's grain embargo, restored grain sales to the Soviet Union, and we've been able to bring down interest rates and sharply reduce inflation. Unfortunately, our success against inflation, while helpful to farmers in most respects, has caused them some special problems. Many farmers took out loans in the late 1970's when inflation was soaring, and they assumed the value of the land they were pledging as collateral would keep rising with inflation. Well, now that inflation has plunged, those loans have become very difficult for some of those farmers to carry, so in the last 3 years the Farmers Home Administration has more than doubled its regular operating loans for farmers. This week we announced another major initiative to assist farmers trying to cope with debt burdens. Farmers Home will permit a deferral for 5 years of up to 25 percent of principal and interest payments owed by farmers who need breathing room. The deferrals will be made on a case-by-case basis. For those not participating in FmHA, we're making available $630 million in guarantees of loans by private banks as part of rescheduling plans for troubled farmers. The road back isn't easy. But by resisting quick fixes and helping those in steel and farming help themselves, we'll make sure all of us can, and will, go forward together. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This has been a busy week of diplomatic activity for America. I've addressed the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings and met with a dozen world leaders. Among them were the new leader of our neighbor to the north, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, and, as you know, Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko. To the delegates at the U.N., I emphasized America's dedication to world peace through confident and stronger alliances and a constructive dialog with our adversaries. I told them of the importance we attached to seeking peaceful solutions to regional conflicts plaguing many nations and the need for democratic principles and human freedom as the foundation for a more prosperous, peaceful world. At the IMF and World Bank, I reported that an American economic renaissance is underway, leading the rest of the world from the darkness of recession toward brighter days of renewed hope and global prosperity. World economic growth today is nearly twice what it was 4 years ago, and inflation in the industrial countries is half of what it was. The growing economic interdependence of our world is creating a ripple effect of good news for those countries committed to sensible policiespolicies which allow the magic of the marketplace to create opportunities for growth and progress, free from the dead weight of government interference and misguided protectionism. But we can't build an enduring prosperity unless peace is secure. Our relations with the Soviet Union have been at the center of my attention, and yesterday I met with Foreign Minister Gromyko at the White House for a thorough exchange of views. I've said from the outset of my public life that a successful U.S. policy toward the Soviet Union must rest on realism, strength, and a willingness to negotiate. Last January I spelled out clearly our goals for U.S.-Soviet relations: to reduce and eventually eliminate the threat and use of force in resolving disagreements; to reduce the vast stockpiles of armaments in the world, especially nuclear arms; and to establish a working relationship between our two countries marked by a greater understanding. In our meeting yesterday, we covered all issues which separate us. And while I told Mr. Gromyko of our disappointment that his country walked out of the Geneva nuclear arms reduction talks last year, we remain ready to discuss the entire family of arms control issues as soon as they are. It's in both our interests that these talks commence promptly and that progress be made. Our two countries have no more solemn responsibility than to reduce the level of arms and to enhance understanding. Mr. Gromyko and I also discussed major trouble spots in the world, and I told him that it's vital for us to exchange views and help find lasting solutions to these regional disputes. We didn't seek to gloss over the hard issues that divide our two countries. We were not looking to paper over these differences. Indeed, I made plain to Mr. Gromyko what it is about Soviet behavior that worries us and our allies. But they were useful talks. I made it clear that we Americans have no hostile intentions toward his country and that we're not seeking military superiority over the U.S.S.R. I told him, "If your government wants peace, then there will be peace." And I said that the United States is committed to move forward with the Soviet Union toward genuine progress in resolving outstanding issues. Pursuing peace, prosperity, and democracy are not new goals. They've been at the heart of an American foreign policy that down through the years has sought to promote individual freedom and human progress in the world. I think one great change has taken place in the world over the last 4 years: The tide of freedom has begun to rise again. Four years ago, American influence and leader. ship were ebbing. Our defenses were neglected, our economy was collapsing, and other countries were being undermined by Communist-supported insurgencies. Today, our economy is vibrant, our strength is being restored, our alliances are solid, and peace is more secure. Now the Soviets will return home to ponder our exchanges. And while they know they will not secure any advantages from inflexibility, they will get a fair deal if they seek the path of negotiation and peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week my opponent unveiled with great fanfare his plan to combat dangerous drugs, a plan comprising what he called "four new initiatives." Well, forgive me, but his so-called new initiatives aren't new. Every one of them is by now an old initiative, begun by us more than 2 1/2 years ago, when we first started the South Florida Task Force. Then, a year later, following the success of the task force, we extended these initiatives nationwide and set up the National Narcotics Border Interdiction System, known as NNBIS. Consider my opponent's first new initiative: "Create a high-level drug coordinator." Well, perhaps he hasn't heard, but we already have drug interdiction coordination at the highest possible level of government. The Vice President has been in charge of the South Florida Task Force and NNBIS from the start. And under his direction, nearly two dozen Federal agencies have been brought into the war on drugs; many, including the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, are more involved in fighting drugs than ever before. Working with the Coast Guard and civilian law enforcement agencies, the military has contributed directly to the interdiction and seizure of major quantities of marijuana and cocaine in the past 2 years. The Vice President has worked closely with the Attorney General, who has created 13 new organized crime and drug enforcement task forces. And those task forces are bringing record numbers of indictments against the leaders of drug trafficking. His second new initiative undertakes "broad international initiatives." Well, we're already working with other governments as no administration before has to stop the flow of drugs into our country. Bolivia and Peru recently began coca plant control programs. Pakistan has reduced its apiumor opium, I should say, poppy cultivation more than 90 percent. And Burma continues to expand its opium eradication effort. Colombia has begun spraying its marijuana crops and in the last year has located and destroyed major cocaine factories. This past summer the Vice President met with the Presidents of five Latin American countries to discuss further efforts. And, as you saw this past week, expert cooperation between our Justice Department and the Italian Government led to arrests of Mafia leaders in the United States. My opponent's third new initiative: "Step up American enforcement efforts." Well, someone should tell him that we've included $1.2 billion in the 1985 Federal budget for drug law enforcementa 75-percent increase over the last budget of his administration. During his administration, drug enforcement agencies and FBI agents were reduced by 10 percent. In our administration, the Department of Justice has added 1,200 new agents and prosecutors, and we've increased the special agents in customs from 600 to 1,000. Apparently, he hasn't heard about the increase in radar balloons and Navy and Air Force surveillance flights to track planes attempting to slip across the Gulf of Mexico and the Mexican border, not to mention the Coast Guard, which is moving forward with its improved detection and surveillance program. Finally, his fourth new initiative: "More State and local support." State and local officials are involved in the drug war as never before. Forty-seven States are now eradicating domestic marijuana. State and local law enforcement officials have expressed their satisfaction with the new high level of information sharing and cooperative efforts with the Federal Government. At home and abroad we've seen record drug busts and convictions, and we've seen that in each of the last 2 years serious crime has droppedthe first time that's happened in consecutive years since the FBI began keeping statistics. Let me mention something else, because for all the so-called new initiatives my opponent is proposingthat we've already begunhe did omit one very important one. We're not just increasing our efforts to limit the supply of drugs; we're also trying to limit the demand for drugs. And that's why Nancy's been joining with concerned parents and citizens all across our country to put out the word to young Americans: Stay away from drugs; they hurt and kill. And we can all be proud of the way our young people have responded. In 1979 one in nine high school seniors used marijuana on a daily basis. By 1983 the number had dropped to 1 in 18still too high, but a great improvement. Just as Americans have pulled together to turn around so many other problems we inherited 4 years agoinflation, record interest rates, taxes, no growth, falling test scores in school, and low morale in our military-so, too, we're coming together as a nation to tackle the drug problem. So, the question I keep wondering about my opponent is, where's he been? Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The 1984 campaign is in full swing. And no matter who you arestudent, construction worker, farmer, nurse, or high-tech entrepreneur-this election offers you the clearest choice for your future in many years. The central economic issue in this campaign is growth. Will we have policies that give each of you opportunities to climb higher and push America to challenge the limits of growth, policies like those that in the 22 months have given this nation the strongest economic expansion in 30 years, or will we go back to those failed policies of the Carter-Mondale administration that inflicted unprecedented hardship on our people? Our vision of strong economic growth is not a pipe dream; it's a living accomplishment. And it can continue to get better, offering new hope for everyone, including all of you who have not yet recovered from the Carter-Mondale past. We came to Washington with a pledge to make a new beginning by putting more power, earnings, and decisions back in your hands. That's why we passed the first tax rate reduction for everyone since President John Kennedy's program 20 years ago. And it's no coincidence that once those tax cuts took hold, the American economy woke up with a roar from years of economic slumber. Think about this success, because you're the ones who made it happen and who can and must keep it going. Twenty-two straight months of economic expansion and yet inflation is only one-third what it was when my opponent was in office. Six hundred thousand new business incorporations last yearan all-time record. Over 6 million new jobs created; in fact, more jobs created on average each month than were created in all the Common Market countries combined during the last 10 years. But we can't and won't be satisfied until every American who wants a job can find a job, until inflation is down to 0.0 and interest rates have been brought down more, until the farm community has fully recovered from the legacy of record interest rates, inflation, and the grain embargoand until we modernize and make our older industries more competitive with new technologies. In other words, all of us have made great progress, but even greater challenges lie ahead. We want to go forward with exciting new opportunities to help America challenge the limits of growthfor example, an historic simplification of our tax system, making the entire system more fair and easier to understand so we can bring yours and everybody's personal tax rates further down, not up. My opponent has a very different vision-a gloomy vision of weakness that doesn't look to you with confidence or challenge you to dream great dreams and make America grow, but that places its trust in bigger government. We must ask ourselves one question: What has he ever done or said to suggest, let alone convince us, that his vision can do anything but fail? The record is clear. In his administration, the only things that went up were inflation, interest rates, and taxes, while everything elseinvestment, productivity, earnings, savings, confidence, optimism, and growthall fell apart. Then, when we came along, he predicted our tax reduction would be, murderously inflationary. That was just before inflation dropped dramatically. He said there was no hope of recovery. Then economic recovery began. He said recovery would be anemic at best. That was before the strongest economic expansion in 30 years. Now he says the deficit cannot be brought down without new tax increases. And at this very moment, the deficit is coming down without new tax increases. My opponent puts government first, which is why his policies fail and his predictions are wrong. We trust in you, and that spells success through economic growth. Nor has he learned from his mistakes. He has proposed to raise taxes by $85 billion. In fact, he would have to raise taxes the equivalent of $1,890 per household to pay for his promises. And just this past week he began to reveal the rest of his plan. He said he would repeal indexing, the reform we passed to keep you from being taxed when inflation pushes you into higher and higher tax brackets. Now he says he goofed. Well-whatever. We do know he has a basic two part plan: raise you taxes, and then raise them again. Asking you to buy his failed policies is a little like someone expecting you to go to a used-car lot to buy back the lemon you got rid of 4 years ago. But you don't have to. You can stick with leadership that's working; leadership that trusts in you and offers growth and opportunity so all of us can go forward together to build a better American future. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow, my opponent and I will debate foreign policy in Kansas City, so I'd like to talk to you about the foreign policy choices for our future as I see it. In speaking about his economic policies, I've said my opponent is a man of the past whose administration's domestic policies failed and made America weak. Well, that goes for foreign policy as well. Mr. Mondale as a Senator, later as understudy to Jimmy Carter, and still today has seemed possessed with one simple but very wrong idea: American strength is a threat to world peace. And he's devoted a political career to opposing our strength, exposing us to dangerous, unnecessary risks. As a Senator, he voted time and again against American strength, against technological advances meant to better protect our security. He voted against the cruise missile, the B-1 bomber, the Trident submarine, and against salary increases for the military. Yes, he did vote for certain things. He voted for cutting U.S. troops in Europe, for cutting our military manpower, and for cutting our defense budgets. How could a politician even face the young people who protect our freedom after he's voted to deny them the equipment and protection they need? My opponent's Senate voting record on defense was so weak, he ranked right next to George McGovern. The Carter-Mondale administration echoed this defeatist spirit. By the late 1970's, the policies of unilateral concession were giving the Soviet Union military advantages over the United States and the West. The Soviets installed missiles that created new vulnerabilities in Europe and put new strains on the NATO alliance. During those years, the Soviet Union expanded its influence in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and here in our own hemisphere. They overturned or took control of a new country every year. Meanwhile, the Carter-Mondale administration negotiated an arms agreement so weak they couldn't get it approved in a Senate controlled by their own party. My opponent talks about the Carter-Mondale years as a period of relaxed tension. Well, it's true they relaxedbut the Soviets didn't. What troubles me most is how little he seems to have learned about the dangers of weakness and naive thinking. I don't question his patriotism; I do question his judgment. In 1968 he said that the days of Soviet suppression by force were over. Then, the Soviets invaded Czechoslovakia. But he didn't learn. He voted against American military strength during the 1970's, even as the Soviets were embarking upon the most massive military buildup in history. After the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, Mr. Mondale still hadn't learned. He said, "I cannot understand. It just baffles me why the Soviets these last few years have behaved as they have. And why do they have to build up all those arms?" Well, today he still advocates unilateral cuts in important weapons systems, still argues for a freeze, which his own running mate admits is not fully verifiable and Mr. Carter's former national security adviser describes as a hoax. Senator Glenn, a Democrat, has warned that "Walter Mondale's defense policies would emasculate America." Senator Hollings, a Democrat, said, "Walter Mondale thinks the Soviet Union would never violate an arms agreement. I think he's naive." Well, to borrow Mr. Mondale's expression, he seems baffled by so much. He was confused about the rightness of freeing our students on the island of Grenada. He said that liberation took away our moral authority to criticize the Soviets about Afghanistan. Yet he could not bring himself to repudiate the Reverend Jesse Jackson after he had traveled to Cuba and said, "Long live Cuba! Long live Castro! Long live Che Guevara? Well, in the past 3 1/2 years, our administration has demonstrated the true relationship between strength and confidence and democracy and peace. We've restored our economy and begun to restore our military strength. This is the true foundation for a future that is more peaceful and free. We've made America and our alliances stronger and the world safer. We've discouraged Soviet expansion by helping countries help themselves, and new democracies have emerged in El Salvador, Honduras, Grenada, Panama, and Argentina. We have maintained peace and begun a new dialog with the Soviets. We're ready to go back to the table to discuss arms control and other problems with the Soviet leaders. Today we can talk and negotiate in confidence because we can negotiate from strength. Only my opponent thinks America can build a more peaceful future on the weakness of a failed past. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When I was asked recently what's been the greatest highlight of our campaign, I said the tremendous number of young people at our rallies and the tremendous outpouring of their spirit for America and our future. To all of them, I just have to say: Your generation really sparkles. In my travels I have met you by the thousands, and I've seen enthusiasm and patriotism in your eyes that convince me you get high on America. Historians may look back at the strength of your spirit and common sense as key to the great American renewal in the 1980's. Our generations are separated by more years than I care to admit; yet I feel a special bond of kinship with you. I think we share not only a great love for America but also an appreciation for the secret of America's successopportunity. America works best when we unite for opportunity, reaching for the stars and challenging the limits of our potential. And America's greatest progress for everyone-whites, blacks, young, and oldbegins not in Washington, but in our homes, neighborhoods, workplaces, and voluntary groups across this land. We weren't meant to be a nation divided; we weren't meant to be a nation second-best. We were meant to be, as our Olympic athletes showed last summer, a people with faith in each other, courage to dream great dreams, opportunities to climb higher, and determination to go for the gold. Providing opportunities for all of us to make this great, free nation greater and freer still is what we've been trying to do since we made a great sea change in 1981a change to reverse the flow of power to Washington and begin restoring sovereignty to the people. We knew that inflation and the highest interest rates since the Civil War were making it impossible for people to buy homes, start up businesses or, for that matter, even find jobs. So, we reduced spending growth and cut tax rates for everyone. We knew that our defenses had become dangerously weak. So, we started rebuilding to be strong again. We've only begun to clear away the debris from decades of bad policies. Many people still need help. Nevertheless, America already has made a great comeback. Inflation, taxes, interest rates, and crime are down, but confidence, jobs, investment, growth, and achievement in our schools are up. And unlike 4 years ago when the Soviets were gaining influence and spreading instability throughout the world, since 1981 not 1 square inch of territory has been lost to Communist aggression. That's what makes the world a safer place. Today our nation is at peace and our economy is in one piece. We're poised to meet great challenges for the future. We can reduce personal tax rates further, creating new jobs and opportunities for every American with nobody left behind. We can pass initiatives like enterprise zones to rebuild the distressed areas of our country and push on toward much greater progress in education, science, technology, and space. This month an American woman, Kathryn Sullivan, made history walking in space, then returned to the space shuttle in which some of the great scientific and medical advances of the future will be made. That's why we support the space shuttle and why we've committed America to build a permanently manned space station within a decade. And by keeping America strong and prepared for peace we'll have the best chance to begin reducing nuclear weapons and, one day, God willing, banish them entirely. But before we do anything, you must choose: Will we keep moving forward on a new path toward a better future, or will we turn back to my opponent's philosophyweaker defenses, inflationary spending, and huge tax increases? The difference between us is that we look at a problem and see opportunity, and he looks at opportunity and sees a problem. We seek a tax system that rewards work and investment and stimulates growth. Mr. Mondale would bring back the very policies that destroy incentives, destroy opportunity, and destroy economic growthpolicies that would cause enormous hardship and send many of you from the graduation line to the unemployment line. We can do better, much better. We want you to have an America every bit as full of hope, confidence, and dreams as our parents left us. Come November 6th, I hope millions of you will make history by voting for your futurevoting for opportunity, voting for leadership that trusts in you and the power of your dreams. If you do, we'll bring this nation together with new strength and unity. We'll make sure America's best days are yet to come. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In 3 days this election campaign will be over, and America's future will be in your hands. As you discuss the election with family and friends in your homes and neighborhoods, I think there's one thing we can all agree on. We all want to vote for something, not against something. We want to vote for a better America, for a stronger country with our people pulling together; a future of peace, filled with hope and new opportunity, a future where our progress is limited only by our own dreams and determination and where Americans are working because America is working. So, it seems to me the question to be asked is a straightforward one: Which team's record and proposals stand a better chance to enable you and your families to enjoy a strong and successful future? Well, our opponents don't spend much time speaking about their record. And that's understandable. Their record speaks for itself. After 4 years of controlling the White House and both Houses of Congress, they left America weaker, both at home and abroad. They would have us forget their legacy of an America second-best, double-digit inflation, record taxes and interest rates at home; growing instability and threats to peace abroad. I'd be willing to forget that record, too, if they weren't so bound and determined to give us more of that medicine that made us sick. As for their new proposals, they differ from their old ones in only one respect: They've promised more. They will spend more, and they will raise your taxes much higher, the equivalent of $1,890 per household, more than $150 per month. Now, my opponent wants very badly to make you believe his enormous tax increase proposal won't hurt your families. That's what his commercials say. And those commercials are every bit as believable as the ones he ran portraying himself as a person committed to a strong national defense, standing on the deck of a carrier, even though he voted against them, with F-14 fighters, which he also voted against, and beside American enlisted men, whose salary increases he opposed. Our opponents are determined to bring back even more big taxing and spending than before. And if they regain control of this government, Americans may look back on our term as one brief oasis of prosperity in an endless desert of worsening inflation and recession. Yes, their intentions are good. But good intentions aren't good enough. Their policies made America weak before. They would make us weak again today, and even weaker still in the future. America can do better, much better. And the fact is, America is doing better. The principal difference is, our vision for America will let the eagle soar. Theirs will return us to the days of the sore eagle. We still face great problems, but today our economy is stronger than 4 years ago because we've cut your tax rates, brought inflation and interest rates down, and created 6 million new jobs. And America is more secure, because we're rebuilding our defenses and our alliances to ensure peace through strength. Today the United States expansion is leading the world into recovery, and that contributes to a safer, more prosperous world. Respect for America and confidence in America are rising again. And unlike 4 years ago, the United States is deterring, the Soviets aren't advancing, and all this, too, contributes to a safer world and a better future. We've made a good start, but it's only a start. We want to lower your tax rates further to create more jobs and opportunities for every American with nobody left behind. And nobody left behind means we must continue our efforts to modernize our older industries and to rebuild our inner cities and distressed areas of America, so every American who wants a job can find a job. We've sponsored enterprise zone legislation, to encourage business development and creation of jobs in distressed areas. But from day one, our enterprise zone proposal has been held hostage by the House leadership, the very people who act as if they expect black and Hispanic Americans to march in lockstep with the Democratic Party. I can assure all of you who want the opportunity to begin climbing the economic ladder, to build a better life: If you give us your support, we will never take your votes for granted. I believe Americans are coming together with new strength, confidence, spirit, and unity. From the bottom of my heart, I thank you for allowing me the honor of serving you these past 4 years. I urge you to vote on Tuesday, and I hope you'll cast your votes for our team, our entire team, so we can make even greater progress in building a strong, secure future of opportunity for all of you. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Hello again. This is my first radio talk since last November's election, and I'm glad to be back. There was some question if this show would be continued, but I guess the ratings were pretty good, so they took up my option. As you know, it was so cold here in Washington this week, we had to hold the inaugural ceremonies inside. It was a great disappointment to many who planned to attend, but I'm sure it was a good idea. An outside event would have given new meaning to our planned "freeze" on the Federal Government. The inauguration ceremony is simple and unpretentious, but sitting there next to Nancy, waiting to take the oath of office, I was deeply stirred. In that short ceremony, our nation comes together to reaffirm our faith in individual liberty and celebrate the democratic institutions that have preserved and protected our freedom for over 200 years. To place one's hand on the Bible and solemnly swear to defend the Constitution of the United States is to be reminded of how strong the will of our free people, guided by faith, can be. Not only has our nation withstood and triumphed over the trials of history, the principles and values embodied in our Constitution have inspired the spread of democracy throughout the world. From times of hardship, we've always emerged with a renewed sense of confidence and a determination to meet and to conquer whatever challenges lie ahead. We start out the new year with good news. The fundamental strength and vitality of our economy is unquestionable. In 1984 we grew stronger and faster than we have in over 30 years, while inflation stayed lower than any time since 1967. Last month 340,000 people found new jobs in an economy that now employs more people than ever before in history. Like a sapling in springtime, our economy sprang back after a long winter and reached for the Sun. Once we began to remove the crushing weight of high taxes and overregulation, nothing could hold us back. Our challenge in 1985 is to build on the momentum of progress, to carry the economic expansion forward so that its opportunities and benefits touch every American. Let's make 1985 the year of opportunity. Let's use our economy, America's tremendous engine of prosperity, to break down the barriers and obstacles on the road to achievement. Our goal must be an open society in which hope is nourished and effort rewarded, where the promise of tomorrow is found in opportunity today. The entrepreneurial genius of the American people transformed a continent covered by wilderness into the leading industrial power in the world today. We in government should learn to look at our country with the eyes of the entrepreneur, seeing possibilities where others see only problems. That way, instead of the unemployed, we'd see a resource of potential workers waiting to add their labors, their ingenuity, their creativity to an expanding marketplace. And instead of ghettos, we'd see potential enterprise zones, where increased incentives to work and invest could produce a renaissance of business activity and community involvement. It's my great hope that, in the months ahead, forward-looking Members from both sides of the aisle in the Congress will join with us in this important work. We must follow through on the policies that have given us 25 months of economic growth by simplifying our cumbersome tax codes and lowering rates still further, while making sure that the overall burden of government on our private economy grows no bigger. After we've come so far, we must never turn back to the old destructive habits of taxing and spending. With a future beckoning so brightly, we must move forward on the optimistic path of economic growth and expanding opportunity. Don't let anyone underestimate America. I'm reminded of a remark attributed to Thomas Watson, the chairman of the board of IBM back in 1943, to the effect that there was a world market for about five computers. Well today, of course, there are millions of computers in homes and businesses, schools and hospitals across the country and around the world. But even an expert in the field couldn't predict the explosive growth of technology that we've seen recently. That's why we shouldn't hesitate to dream big. We must ask of ourselves only the best. We must challenge ourselves to hurdle the accepted limits of the past, to draw a new map of possibilities, and give new meaning to the word "success." Isn't that, after all, what it means to be Americans? Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Monday morning we will submit to the Congress our budget for fiscal year 1986. It is a budget that carries an enormous investment of human time and effort; indeed, I believe, the most exhaustive effort ever made to rein in government's chronic overspending. Every proposal is based on a careful review of what government should and should not do, what's worked and what hasn't, what we can and can no longer afford. Collectively, the more than 50 proposals we are making can stop the excessive growth of Federal spending in its tracks and put budget deficits on a permanent downward path. We'll be going into details on Monday and asking Congress to join us in a strong bipartisan effort. But today I want to lay a few facts on the table, so you understand why some so-called solutions you will hear aren't solutions at all and also what all of us must do to cure government's overspending once and for all. First, as surely as night follows day, you'll hear that we can't make lasting progress bringing deficits down until we agree to a tax increase. Wrong. Our problem isn't that you're paying too little taxes; it's that government is spending too much money. In the past 10 years, your tax revenues have grown by more than $400 billion, but spending by government has grown by almost 600 billion40 percent more than revenues. And government spending has grown more than one-third faster than the growth of our economy. In other words, Washington's policy is: "Heads, I win; tails, you lose." When your families do well, government spends and borrows. When you don't do well, government spends and borrows. Our future economic success depends on the economy growing faster than government spending. That's why raising taxes would boomerang. Economic growth would slow, revenues would decline, and the budget deficit would swell. The second so-called solution you will hear is that lasting progress won't be made without deep cuts in defense. Wrong again. Defense spending accounts for less than 30 percent of our budget todayfar less than 20 years ago. We've cut our planned defense buildup 3 years in a row and cut it again this yearand all this while our adversaries have raced ahead with the greatest military buildup in the history of man. It's time everyone faced up to why government, for nearly 50 years, has been heading down a one-way street of overspending and rising public debt. Part of the spending is understandableimproved Social Security benefits for a growing elderly population, for example. But much of it results from the combination of special interest groups and flawed budget procedures. Our system of budget making in the Congress practically guarantees spending growth, and this unsettles financial markets and helps keep interest rates from falling. When government makes redistributing income more important than producing it, people reallocate their energies from economic to political action. The growth in special interests, which many in Congress lament, parallels a pattern of government taking from some to give to others. It parallels the ability of special interests to lobby for benefits and override the national interest by concentrating great power on a small group of legislators. So, spending and taxes rise, and growth declines. That's why we have a rising national debt and a growing burden of paying interest on that debt. Our challenge is to strive for the strongest possible level of economic growth while making sure spending by government remains well below that. To accomplish this, we're proposing three long-term reforms. First, we want to reform the tax system, make it more fair and simple for all, so we can bring down tax rates for individuals and businesses, provide incentives for stronger growth, and thereby increase revenues to government. Second, we want the Congress to pass a constitutional amendment mandating government spend no more than government takes in. I will urge the House of Representatives to follow the positive actions of the Senate and pass this long-overdue reform. Third, we need passage of a line-item veto, so Presidents would have the power 43 Governors now have to veto individual items of wasteful overspending in appropriation bills. We're doing a lot to bring down spending growth and keep our economy growing. We could do a lot more if we keep our eyes on the facts and work together. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Wednesday night I spoke to you about the great days that lie ahead for America if we do what we must to continue our economic expansion, creating new freedom and opportunities for people and uniting across party lines to keep bringing government spending growth down. Since the beginning of 1983, when all the elements of our tax program were finally in place, our economy has burst ahead with 2 straight years of economic growth, leaving inflation and all the experts' pessimistic predictions in the dust. America did not win such a dramatic victory just to declare defeat. Today we're poised on the launching pad of the future. We can make these next 4 years the greatest victories for growth, opportunity, and freedom America has ever known. Let me repeat what you know in your hearts and what has been the great guiding force of our philosophy from the very beginning: There are no limits to growth, no constraints on how strong America can become if all of you are set free. You elected us to get results, and we, as leaders, must show courage and imagination worthy of you: leadership for a growth economy that provides new and greater incentives and keeps inflation and interest rates heading down; leadership to bring forth economic opportunity in the inner cities, resurgence in our industrial heartland, new productivity and technological breakthroughs, and help for farmers in distress from past government failures in this time of transition to a market-oriented economy. Already we're hearing old, familiar voices telling us to slow down, prepare to slash the defense budget, and raise taxesall in the name of reducing projected budget deficits. Well, those arguments were rejected on November 6th. The single best deficit program is an all-out push for economic growth. As I said Wednesday night, each added percentage point per year of real gross national product growth will lead to a cumulative reduction in deficits of nearly $200 billion over 5 years. So, let's make one thing plain at the outset of the new term. We're raring to go. We have no intention of sitting at the starting gate. We're going to begin working now and pushing hard, in the Congress and across the country, for initiatives like tax simplification, enterprise zones, and the youth employment opportunity wage to help America reach her full potential. As we lift America onto a stronger growth path, with more businesses starting up, more investments made, and more people employed and paying taxes, we will reduce the need for government spending on many of today's support programs. But we must do more. We must also face up to the legacy of some 50 years of overspending, born of a deliberate policy that told us planned deficits and inflation would be good for us. The budget I've sent to the Congress this year calls for an absolute freeze on overall government program spending at the fiscal 1985 level of approximately $804 billion, excluding debt service costs. Now, I know that there'll be differences of opinion on how to achieve this freeze. But if the Congress will work with us in a spirit of cooperation and compromise, then together we can bring our budget under control without damaging the economy or endangering national security. I urge the Congress to move quickly on a spending cut package that will reduce overall government spending growth. I hope our energies will be spent finding ways that we can reduce spending, rather than finding reasons why we cannot. Other reforms are needed. I've often mentioned a constitutional amendment mandating a balanced budget and a lineitem veto to cut individual items in overall appropriation bills. But elsewhere, our efforts to reduce bureaucracy through efficiencies and reductions in unnecessary personnel have been thwarted by congressionally mandated employment levels for certain programs. Our managers could get the job done just as well with fewer employees, but their hands are tied. The executive branch has also been thwarted by legislative restraints from having its commercial-type activitiescafeterias and the likehandled by private businesses, which can run them less expensively than government. And a President's power to limit spending himself is also restricted to the Congress. Once an appropriations bill has been signed into law, the President must spend all that money, even if he believes certain items are unnecessary. I continue to urge the Congress to give me the authority for line-item vetoes. This week we've begun a new journey. If Congress works with us, we can accomplish great things for America. But the time to act is now. Till next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: One of the most inspiring developments of recent years is the move against communism and toward freedom that is sweeping the world. In the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, we see the dissidents; in Poland, the Solidarity movement. We see freedom fighters in Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Cambodia, and Angola. These brave men and women are fighting to undo the infamous Brezhnev doctrine, which says that once a nation falls into the darkness of Communist tyranny, it can never again see the light of freedom. Nowhere do we see this more than in Nicaragua, whose Sandinista government is a Marxist-Leninist clique that broke the hearts of the freedom-loving people of their country by imposing a brutal dictatorship soon after taking control in 1979. Functioning as a satellite of the Soviet Union and Cuba, they moved quickly to suppress internal dissent, clamp down on a free press, persecute the church and labor unions, and betray their pledge to hold free elections. Now they're exporting drugs to poison our youth and linking up with the terrorists of Iran, Libya, the Red Brigades, and the PLO. The Sandinistas aren't democrats, but Communists; not lovers of freedom, but of power; not builders of a peaceful nation, but creators of a fortress Nicaragua that intends to export communism beyond its borders. The true heroes of the Nicaraguan strugglenon-Communist, democracy-loving revolutionariessaw their revolution betrayed and took up arms against the betrayer. These men and women are today the democratic resistance fighters some call the contras. We should call them freedom fighters. Sandinista propaganda denounces them as mercenaries and former National Guardsmen of the Somoza dictatorship; but this is a lie. The freedom fighters are led by those who oppose Somoza, and their soldiers are peasants, farmers, shopkeepers, and studentsthe people of Nicaragua. These brave men and women deserve our help. They do not ask for troops, but only for our technical and financial support and supplies. We cannot turn from them in their moment of need; to do so would be to betray our centuries-old dedication to supporting those who struggle for freedom. This is not only legal, it's totally consistent with our history. Time and again in the course of our history, we've aided those around the world struggling for freedom, democracy, independence, and liberation from tyranny. In the 19th century, we supported Simon Bolivar, the Great Liberator. We supported the Polish patriots, the French Resistance, and others seeking freedom. We well remembered how other nations, like France, had come to our aid during our own Revolution. It's not in the American tradition to turn away. And lucky for us that those who loved democracy 200 years ago didn't turn away from us. Most of us know of the heroism of Lafayette, who chose to be a brother to those who fought for American independence. But he did more than fight in the field for the Continental Army. He went to France during the war and pleaded with his government for financial aid for the American rebels. And he returned to General Washington with a promise that France would send support, including a large contingent of troops to help in the crucial last campaign. It was those French troops and Lafayette, himself, who helped defeat General Cornwallis and assure the British surrender at Yorktown. America may never have been born without the help and support of the freedom loving people of Europe, of Lafayette and Von Steuben and Kosciusko. And America did not forget. More than a century after our Revolution, American soldiers went to France to help them resist tyranny in World War I. And they said, in words that will live forever in the history of gratitude, "Lafayette, we are here." This is not a story from some romantic past. This is how democracy was built: with one country, one people helping another in their hour of greatest peril. And now the free people of El Salvador, Honduras, and, yes, of Nicaragua ask for our help. There are over 15,000 freedom fighters struggling for liberty and democracy in Nicaragua and helping to stem subversion in El Salvador. They're fighting for an end to tyranny and its only reliable product: cruelty. They are our brothers. How can we ignore them? How can we refuse them assistance when we know that, ultimately, their fight is our fight? We must remember that if the Sandinistas are not stopped now, they will, as they have sworn, attempt to spread communism to El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, and elsewhere. The freedom fighters are putting pressure on the Sandinistas to change their ways and live, not as Communist puppets, but as peaceful democrats. We must help. Congress must understand that the American people support the struggle for democracy in Central America. We can save them, as we were once saved, but only if we act and now Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to expand today on what I said in my Thursday night news conference about our farmers' financial plight and what must be done to hasten the return of their prosperity. It's important to note that about twothirds of today's farmers have no debt problems and only a minority of the remainder are in severe Financial distress. Now, that's not to minimize one bit the difficulties all farmers face following the shocks of the 1970's: two grain embargoes, double-digit inflation, and record interest rates at 21 percent. As farmers' land values shot up, some borrowed large stuns of money and, yes, sometimes exorbitant sums, based on that inflated land value. Then, as we brought inflation downand believe me, we're determined to keep it downthose farmers have been left with declining land values to cover their loans, making them harder to repay. These problems have been worsened by the inflexible farm programs under which we operate. Designed to help agriculture, they have increased dependency upon the Federal Government, weakening incentives for self-reliance. For example, between 1973 and 1983, the Federal Government went from purchasing 1.9 percent to 12 percent of all dairy products-the equivalent of 17 billion pounds of butter, cheese, and dried milk piled up in cold storage. The cost to taxpayers soared from $117 million to well over $2 billion. Other programs leading to surpluses in corn and wheat depressed prices, sent false signals to the markets, and drove more farmers toward bankruptcy. The same government which played a part in this unhappy drama must not turn away from those who are the backbone of our nation, who gave America the highest standard of living in the world, and who preserved the blessing of life for millions of the world's hungry. Last September we announced a $650 million debt restructuring initiative. Yesterday Agriculture Secretary Block announced a modification of Federal regulations so that banks will have an incentive to work out lower payments for farmers having trouble paying off their loans. We're providing loan guarantees for eligible farmers whose local banks fail and who can't find a new private lender without such a guarantee. Our program will ease further the farmers' requirement for participation in it, so more of them can take advantage of our credit offer. This administration is moving forward with its credit program because spring planting cannot wait. Let me make one thing very plain: Yes, we are sympathetic, and we will extend support. But American taxpayers must not be asked to bail out every farmer hopelessly in debt, some by hundreds of thousands of dollars, or be asked to bail out the banks who also bet on higher inflation. We have already extended a tremendous amount of assistance. It's time for others to pitch in and do more, from officials at the State level to banks, private groups, and individuals in our communitiesall joining in partnership to help farmers. Over the long haul, there's only one sure solution. We have the ability to change, the opportunity to act, and we're going to begin now working our way back to a free market economy. What farmers need and we're determined to provide is less dependence on politicians to supply their incomes and greater independence to supply their own incomes. Yesterday Secretary Block outlined our proposals when we sent the agricultural adjustment act of 1985 to the Congress. The 1985 farm bill will create stability for the future through policies that permit U.S. agriculture to realize its full potential and be more competitive in world markets. Our package will be market-oriented, enabling farmers during a transition period to become more independent and make their own decisions in the marketplace again. Government will stop purchasing commodities, stop trying to manipulate supply and demand, refrain from quick fixes and extravagant new farm legislation, and move aggressively to expand markets for American farm products. The time is now for a fresh start for American agriculture. And if we combine passage of our farm legislation with spending restraints to reduce Federal borrowing so interest rates can come down further and tax simplification to lower tax rates so we can reach greater growth, then farmers can finally reap a real prosperity every bit as bountiful as their own harvests. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Perhaps you've noticed, as I have, an interesting change in the country in recent weeks. All last year, right through the election and into January, we witnessed a nonstop barrage in speeches, commentaries, and editorials about the dangers of deficits and what must be done to reduce them. I was actually becoming hopeful that new courage was taking root, hopeful that a new consensus to cut Federal spending growth was even emerging among those who've labored a lifetime to expand government size and power. That was a hasty judgment. For just 1 month ago, the mood of the born-again budget balancers abruptly changed. Now they're suffering from a crisis of faith. What caused this sudden change of heart? We submitted our budget to Congress, a budget designed to do just what we pledged during the election: tackle the deficits by cutting spending where it's wasteful, where it is not urgent, and where it subsidizes some people at everyone else's expense. Many of its proposals follow the spirit of recommendations by the Grace commission, some 2,000 citizens who compiled a report on how to cut spending growth without harming the needy or impairing any essential purpose of government. For example, the Small Business Administration has made subsidized loans to only a fraction of the small business community, while the remainder relied on commercial rate financing. Yet, at a time when small business is thriving, many of these subsidized loans are in or near default. We propose ending such subsidies for the benefit of taxpayers at large. Subsidizing Amtrak costs taxpayers $35 per passenger every time a train leaves a station. But that's not the only unwise transportation subsidy. Why, for instance, should the Federal Government be forcing taxpayers in, say, Colorado to subsidize subway fares in New York? Why should any taxpayer subsidize the operating costs of the Washington, DC, transit system, an area with the second highest per capita income in America? Yet these and other proposed budget savings have been greeted by a chorus of boos from guess who?the very people who told us again and again that tough action on deficits couldn't wait. Today they say now is not the time. Consider the political spectacle of recent days. The House Budget Committee, with its members insisting the deficit must be reduced, travels the country inviting special interest groups to resist every proposal for budget savings. The president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors accuses us of abandoning the Federal Government's commitment to urban America, when the growing noninflationary economy has been creating almost 300,000 jobs a month and record revenues for State and local governments. Leaders of four higher education associations shiver outside the Department of Education to symbolize, as they put it, that higher education is being frozen out of the budget. Their word "frozen" is meant to describe a proposal that would spend more than $7 billion more than in 1982 and '83 and nearly three times what it was just 10 years ago. Members of the business community oppose the end of subsidies from the Export-Import Bank. Farm State Senators push multibillion-dollar bailouts for banks and farmers, and one Member even rebukes proposed cutbacks in spending on opera and music in our budget for the National Endowment for the Arts. This past week the Nation's Governors were in Washington. To their credit, they urged Congress to pass the line-item veto and the balanced budget amendment. But they adopted a resolution that would disallow cost-of-living increases for Social Security recipients and rule out any real increases in defense, yet, as California's Governor Deukmejian pointed out, still leave a higher deficit while paving the way for tax increases. I won't deny all the groups I mentioned represent valid interests, which may seem compelling. But there is a larger interest to represent, more compelling and urgent than all the restthe freedom and security of American taxpayers who must not only work, save, and invest to pull our economy forward but also pay all the bills for everything this government does. Well, as long as I'm President, we're not going back to the days when America was fast becoming an impotent democracy, too weak to meet defense commitments or to resist Communist takeovers and, yes, too weak to stop a Federal spending machine from impoverishing families and destroying our economy with runaway taxes and inflation. We're asking Congress to have the political courage to cut $50 billion by Easter. If there isn't enough courage to approve these cuts, then at least give me the authority to veto line-items in the Federal budget. I'll take the political responsibility. I'll make the cuts, and I'll take the heat. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about the deep desire we all share to keep America free, secure, and at peace. In 3 days' time, American and Soviet negotiators will meet in Geneva to explore ways to reduce nuclear arsenals and lower the risks of war. No issue concerns me more and none has taken up more of my time than our quest for a breakthrough on arms reductions. I do so willingly because as your President and as a husband, a father, and a grandfather, I know what's at stake for everyone. And I'm pleased that the Soviets, after staying away for more than a year, have agreed to return to the bargaining table. The renewal of these negotiations is an important step in the right direction, and America will be ready to move forward on all promising avenues for progress. As I speak to you, our team is in Geneva. I cannot think of a more welcome message to give them than a strong vote of confidence from you the people and the Congress. I know that all Americans stand foursquare behind our negotiating team and wish them every success. In fact, you're the reason that the Soviet Union returned to the negotiating table. The Soviet leadership has seen your patience and your determination to keep America strong. They've seen the renewal of your spirit and the rebuilding of a robust and expanding American economy. They know we're going to continue moving forward to protect our freedom and our way of life. I want to believe the Congress will follow your lead, but that's not yet certain, and I need your help. Each House of Congress will soon vote on an issue that will directly and, perhaps, dramatically affect the outcome at Genevathat vote concerns the modernization of our strategic forces with the MX Peacekeeper missile. Let me take a moment to explain what that vote is all about. Nearly 2 years ago after a decade of indecision, confusion, and endless debate over the merits of modernizing our aging land-based strategic missiles, our political process forged a bipartisan consensus that united us in our common search for ways to protect our country, reduce the risks of war, and work for dramatically reduced levels of nuclear arms. The MX Peacekeeper missile has been part of the consensus and with good reason: Time and again, America exercised unilateral restraint, good will, and a sincere commitment to arms reductions. As a result, many of the missiles protecting our security at this very moment are older than the Air Force men and women taking care of them. They're missiles of the sixties, originally equipped with 1950's aerotechnology. It's sort of like a 1963 jalopy with some new parts. You know as well as I do that in many States automobiles that old will soon qualify as antiques, but the Soviets don't deal in antiques. Their response was the same as it's always been: no restraint, just build, build, and build. While we debated and delayed, they developed three new types of land-based intercontinental missiles, and they've added to their arsenal 800 new missiles with more than 5,000 nuclear warheads. It took us too long to realize there is no easy, cheap way to buy security. In 1983, based on the recommendations of a distinguished blue-ribbon panel, the Scowcroft commission, the Congress joined with us to approve the MX Peacekeeper program-100 up-to-date missiles that will replace aging Minuteman missiles. Since that time, the MX Peacekeeper has finished seven successful flight tests, and the Soviets are back at the bargaining table. Well, once again, the moment of truth is at hand. As I mentioned a few minutes ago, each House of Congress will soon vote on whether to release the MX funds they approved last year and continue production of the missile. The Soviet leadership views the current debate on the MX as a key test of American resolve. If the Congress acts responsibly, our negotiators will have a chance to succeed, but if we don't have the courage to modernize our land-based strategic missile systems, the Soviets will have little reason to negotiate meaningful reductions. And why should they? We would be signaling to them that they can gain more through propaganda and stonewalling than through serious negotiations. The time is now to send a signal loud and clear that a united and resolute America backs our negotiators at Geneva, and that could be the real key to a successful outcome. My fellow Americans, the stakes are so very high. The vote on the MX Peacekeeper isn't a budget issue; it's about our nation's security. And when it comes to protecting America's security, we can't afford to divide ourselves as Democrats or Republicans-we must stand together as Americans. It's up to you to let your feelings be known. Your voice matters; let it be heard. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow, in our first trip outside the States in this second term, Nancy and I will be heading north to visit our good neighbors in Canada. We're going at the invitation of Canada's Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, who is an articulate and effective defender of Canadian interests, a strong friend of the United States, and the best votegetter in his nation's history. We're delighted that Brian Mulroney has chosen Quebec City, capital of his home Province, as the site of our meeting. With its old streets and charming ways, Quebec is one of the most intriguing corners of North America, right on our northeastern doorstep. Quebec is modern, too, supplying the United States with everything from electric power to aerospace parts for our defense industries. We're going to Canada now for one simple reason: No country is more important to the United States. Sometimes we overlook that fact. Sometimes our friendship and cooperation may not seem to warrant as much attention as the serious problems we're dealing with in other areas. But certain facts about our Canadian neighbors, with whom we share the world's longest undefended boundary, must never be overlooked. Canada and the United States are each other's most important trading partner. There is greater volume of trade between our two countries than between any other two countries in the world. We sold $45 billion in goods to Canada in 1984, which supported hundreds of thousands of jobs in the United States. Canada is our principal foreign supplier of natural gas and electricity, and Canada is the most important locale for our foreign investment. Walk around our cities and towns today, and you can see increased Canadian investment in real estate and many other parts of our economy. Most important, the national security of the United States and of Canada are very closely interrelated. The commander in chief of the North American Aerospace Defense Command in Colorado Springs is from the States; his deputy is Canadian; and their staff is divided among U.S. and Canadian officers. Four years ago some problems had developed in relations between the United States and Canada. But we've been working hard on both sides of the border to set things right. Today Canadian-American relations are good, as good as they've ever been. And during this trip, the Prime Minister and I are determined to do all we can to make them even better. We will seek to strengthen our economic relations: Market-oriented policies without government interference hold out the best opportunities for our two countries to prosper as economic partners. So, we welcome Canadian investment in the United States and the Mulroney government's legislation to loosen restrictions on foreign investment in Canada, which is an important first step toward liberalizing Canada's own investment policies. It's the firm policy of this administration to resist protectionist pressures. So, we would like Canada and other countries to join us in a new round of multilateral trade talks in 1986. We will encourage the sharing of our mutual defense responsibilities. Canada is a founding member of NATO, with a proud military history stretching from Vimy Ridge in France during the First World War to the skies over Germany in the Second, to the seas off Korea during that conflict. We're pleased with the commitment of Brian Mulroney's government to increase significantly Canada's overall contribution to our shared defense responsibilities. On the quest for arms reductions and on other global problems, Canada's counsel will be a source of great wisdom and strength. The Prime Minister and I will exchange views on developments throughout the world, including the Geneva arms reduction talks and our own efforts to protect freedom, democracy, and peace in this hemisphere. The United States is a pioneer in environmental protection, and we share with Canada a special responsibility for protecting our shared North American environment. The problem of acid rain concerns both our countries, and I'm anxious to hear the Prime Minister's views on that subject. In 1939 Winston Churchill, describing the 5,000-mile peaceful border dividing Canada and the United States, said: "That long frontier from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans, guarded only by neighborly respect and honorable obligations, is an example to every country and a pattern for the future of the world." Today, more than ever, our progress, our partnership, and our friendship can be a model for others and a pattern for the future. Working together, Canada and the United States can accomplish great things for the cause of a safer, freer, and more prosperous world. And that's what our trip is all about. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: April 15th is fast approachingthat dreaded deadline each year when we must turn our attention from jobs, finances, and families to the business of government and the taxes we pay to cover its bills. I'm sorry to tell you that many of those you elected to keep watch over government's expenditures and to keep your taxes down have been hard at work since we submitted our budget doing something else: They've been promising special interest groupsnot to save your tax dollars, but their spending programs. Let me give you some cold, hard facts. If Congress doesn't enact the level of budget savings we've proposed, we'll add nearly three-quarters of a trillion dollars in additional red ink over the next 3 yearsa crushing mortgage on America's future. But that ocean of red ink will not result from a deficit of tax payments. Even after cutting your personal tax rates, the Federal Government still takes away about 19 cents of every dollar America earns and produces-the same as before we came into office. Moreover, reducing those rates has stimulated economic output and led to a bigger tax base and greater tax revenues than almost anyone anticipated. So, if Congress wants to increase revenues further, it must put aside all talk of tax increases, put tax reform on the front burner, and reduce personal tax rates as low as possible so we can free America to challenge the limits of growth. With revenues rising faster than expected, it's clear that the deficit problem is not a problem of taxes, but of spending. But don't believe the drumbeat of propaganda that blames defense spending for government living beyond its means. Our bipartisan effort to rebuild America's defenses only began 3 years ago after more than a decade of neglect, while the Soviets surged ahead with the greatest military buildup in history, adding countries to their empire with the case of a thief plucking apples off a tree. Fifteen years ago our combined domestic and defense spending amounted to only 20 cents on every dollar of gross national productone-fifth less than today. Had spending not then soared out of control, today we would have nearly a balanced budget, far less national debt, and no threat to our current prosperity. But Federal spending didn't get off the track because of defense. We're spending less on defense this year than my predecessor predicted he would spend in his last budget. We're spending less on defense as a percentage of the Federal budget and our total economy than we did 15 years ago. And our budget calls for us to spend 2 cents less per dollar of the gross national product next year than we did in 1970. Spending is zooming for only one reason: The domestic budget is still bloated with waste and unnecessary programs. Even after adjustment for inflation, nondefense program spending has almost doubled since 1970. Maybe it's time you asked Congress some questions of your own; for example: Why won't the Congress stop or cut back its $4.6 billion revenue sharing program that disburses money to communities, when the Federal Government has no revenues to share and local governments are in better fiscal shape? Why won't Congress stop subsidizing Amtrak, which costs taxpayers $35 per passenger every time a train leaves the station? Why won't the Congress stop subsidizing wealthy families earning up to $100,000 a year with thousands of dollars in annual student loan subsidies? Why won't the Congress stop subsidizing a few restaurants, bars, country clubs, and similar businesses with half a billion dollars in loans, when every other small business has to pay the full market rate of interest? And why won't the Congress stop its export subsidies to a handful of corporations which account for less than 2 percent of U.S. exports? Yesterday I invited the Senate leadership to the White House. We had a candid and constructive meeting, and I'm confident that we're coming closer to a meeting of the minds. We agreed that uncontrolled spending poses a threat to our expansion, and we agreed that we must face that threat together and face it now. For my part, I made clear that in further reduction in defense, vital weapons systemseither conventional or strategic-must not be touched, period. The deficit can and will be brought down, but not by raising taxes, which would just torpedo growth and make the deficit worse, or by gambling with America's security when the Soviet Union is every bit as aggressive, expansionist, and dangerous as before. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Before getting into my subject, I want to speak about some special people. Four years ago today, a man tried to take my life. And I wouldn't be here were it not for your prayers and the great skill of the medical team at George Washington University Hospital and the bravery of heroes like Special Agents Tim McCarthy, Jerry Parr, Police Officer Thomas Delahanty, and [Special Agent] Al Antonucci. They, and you, continue to be in my thoughts, as is another who was injured that daymy Press Secretary, Jim Brady. Nancy and I ask for your continued prayers and support for Jim and his family and also for the family of Al Antonucci, the man who helped wrestle my assailant to the ground. Mr. Antonucci died last May. He was a proud American who never asked a thing of others, but who willingly risked his own life to save another. Now, on another subject: This week the House joined the Senate in approving production of the MX Peacekeeper missile and sent an important signal: America will maintain deterrence by modernizing our strategic forces, and we will stand united behind our negotiating team at the arms talks in Geneva. And by strengthening deterrence, we can ensure those weapons are never used and meet a crucial challenge to our shared bipartisan responsibility for preserving peace. But another crucial challenge must be squarely faced. It's a challenge that I and members of my administration will be presenting to you with the utmost seriousness in the days ahead, for it goes to the heart of American security. I'm talking about the Soviet-Cuban-Nicaraguan plan to destroy the fragile flower of democracy and force communism on our small Central American neighborsa plan that could, for the first time, bring tyranny to our own borders, carrying the same specter of economic chaos, the same threat of political terrorism, the same flood tides of refugees we've seen follow every Communist takeover from Eastern Europe to Afghanistan, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, Ethiopia, and, now, Central America. A key Soviet objective has long been to turn Central America into a beachhead for subversion. By tying us down in this hemisphere, by penetrating our vital sealanes and crippling our ability to meet our commitments worldwide, the Soviets will find it much easier to intimidate other nations and to expand their empire. I know many well-intentioned people would rather not accept these facts. But we who have the responsibility for governing cannot afford to be ostriches with our heads in the sand. Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko described the region on our doorstep as "boiling like a cauldron" and urged revolution. We know that the Soviets turned Grenada into a warehouse of violence. They did this in the last 5 years, and they provided more military assistance to Cuba and Nicaragua than we did to all of Latin America. And we know that the support Nicaragua gets from Cuba, Bulgaria, East Germany, North Korea, Libya, the PLO, and Iran is a threat to our security, because the dictators of Cuba and Nicaragua have not only pledged to spread communism, they've been caughtforgive mered-handed trying to do just that. Right now Havana and Managua are waging a campaign of disinformation to cover up their deeds and reassure the American people with soft words of peace. A secret Nicaraguan memo leaked to the Wall Street Journal and reported yesterday revealed how the Communists have used propaganda to smear their opponents, tighten censorship, and confuse the outside world. There are other examples of the regime's true intent. On March 1st, exiled Nicaraguan leaders, representing a broad pro-democracy movement, met in San Jose, Costa Rica, and made this offer: The freedom fighters in Nicaragua would agree to a cease-fire if the Communist regime will negotiate, permit free elections and genuine democracy. The answer came back quick, loud, and clear: Forget it. U.S. support for the freedom fighters is morally right and intimately linked to our own security. If we refuse to help their just cause, if we pull the plug and allow the freedom fighters to be wiped out by the same helicopter gunships the Soviets are using to murder thousands of Afghans, then our ultimate price to protect peace, freedom, and our way of life will be dear indeed. Nearly 24 years ago, President Kennedy, warning against Communist penetration in our hemisphere, said, "I want it clearly understood that this government will not hesitate in meeting its primary obligations, which are to the security of our nation." Well, for my part, I want it clearly understood today that if we fall to meet this obligation, then history will hold us fully accountable to the consequences, for we will send an unmistakable signal that the greatest power in the world is unwilling and incapable of stopping Communist aggression in our own backyard. Until next week, thanks for listening. And God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm speaking to you today from our ranch in California. And I'm happy to report that in keeping with the spirit of Passover and Easter, this week is ending on a very hopeful note. We received encouraging reaction to our peace proposal for Nicaragua, and we've reached an immensely important budget agreement that can help keep America's economic engines running full speed ahead for years to come. Let me speak first about that budget agreement. For months, the voices of conventional wisdom told us government deficits are too high and must be brought down, but when asked how, they inevitably answered, "Slash defense and raise taxes." Well, as I've said many times, we don't have a deficit problem because you're not taxed enough. In the last 10 years, revenues to government increased by over $400 billion, but spending by government went up over 600 billion. Nor do we have a deficit problem because of military spending. We're spending $16 billion less in this fiscal year than Mr. Carter's last budget had projected would be spent. As a matter of fact, as a percentage of the Federal budget, we spent more on defense 15 years ago, and the world was a lot less dangerous then. This week, the Senate Republican leadership agreed with us on the most far-reaching spending reduction plan in postwar history. If approved by the full Congress, almost $300 billion in red ink will be eliminated over the next 3 years. This agreement provides the foundation for historic progress because those deficits will be wiped out without raising taxes a nickel, without jeopardizing vital defense programs or any essential services. What the Senate Republicans have done is bite the bullet on spending, and I believe they deserve your support and that of the other Members of Congress. Some 17 programs will be terminated, others will be thoroughly reformed, and spending on scores of other programs, including pay for government workers, will be frozen. The Defense Department budget will increase by only 3 percent in real terms. We'll have to squeeze costs everywhere if our buildup is to go forward, but Secretary Weinberger assures me that our men and women in uniform can get this job done. Now, you've been reading and hearing about $400 hammers and $700 wrenches and such. Well, these figureswhere do you think they're getting them? They're getting them from us. That's what has been going on, and we've discovered it, and we're stopping it. And we're guaranteeing Social Security recipients an increase of at least 2 percent each year over the next 3 years. If inflation ends up less than 3 percent this year over last, then under present law, Social Security recipients would not be entitled to any increase. Under this new proposal, they'll be guaranteed a 2-percent increase even if there is no inflation. And if Congress cooperates on spending, we can keep bringing inflation down until it is zero. Courage and leadership are crucial if we expect to bring deficits down in a manner that protects our security and permits continued strong economic growth. And that's what we'll be asking for in the days ahead when the Congress returns from recess. Now, let me give you the encouraging news about our proposal for peace and democracy in Nicaragua. As you know, we've asked both sidesthe Communists and the democratic resistanceto lay down their arms. We've endorsed the proposal made by the democratic resistance, the contras, that the Catholic Church serve as mediator to restore freedom and ensure internationally supervised elections. And we've asked Congress to release $14 million for those freedom fightersaid that will go immediately for medicines, food, and clothing and other support to help these men and their families survive. We have made this proposal in a sincere effort to start a dialog aimed at true internal reconciliation, which can bring peace and liberty to Nicaragua. You know, the Federal Government these days spends $14 million every few minutes, so we're asking Congress for just a few minutes worth of help for the democratic forces of Nicaragua$14 million means very little to us, but it's a whole world to them. President Betancur of Colombia has called our proposal positive and constructive. More than a dozen countries, including Nicaragua's neighbors, have already expressed their support. And President Duarte wrote me yesterday to say that we're taking the right step at the right time. And he added, "Your initiative and approach have my complete support and I strongly urge all the friends of Central America in your Congress to give it their full support." In this season of peace, we have put forth an olive branch. We've sought to make a new beginning in a time of hope for all who yearn for freedom. And around the world, those who support democracy are rallying to support our proposal. I ask only that the Members of our own Congress do the same. I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter and Passover. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to talk today about one of the most historic reforms our administration will propose as a top priority for passage in Congress this year. Next month, we'll unveil our plan to completely overhaul our tax code, changing it from a source of confusion and contempt to a model of fairness, simplicity, and incentives for work, risk-taking, and growth. For millions of us, this weekend marks the final countdown to April 15th, the dreaded day we must bare our financial souls, account for every nickel earned, and deliver to the IRS all taxes due. It is a legal obligation we must meet. But paying taxes is painful, nonetheless. Not only because tax rates remain too high, which they are despite the reductions we've made, but because over the years the entire tax system has come to mirror Washington itselfa complicated, frustrating, unfair mystery of legalistic gobbledygook and loopholes never designed, it seems, to help everyday wage earners, only those who can afford high-priced attorneys and accountants. How many times have we heard about profitable companies paying little or no taxes, or seen advertising for sophisticated tax shelter schemes that enable individuals to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, or seen luxuries being written off that must eventually be paid for by somebody else-that somebody, of course, being you. I wonder how many Americans realize that tax deductions are available for seminars and conferences held on cruise ships. We know that our tax code is unfair. We know that it's complicated beyond belief. Millions of Americans need professional assistance just to complete their returns. And we know that it has bred another problem every bit as seriousthe wasting of economic resources. With all the special provisions in our tax laws, too many economic decisions are being made for tax reasons alone, rather than in response to the marketplace. And that causes precious investment to be diverted from areas that could make the United States more productive and competitive in world markets. Let me cite one example. Have you ever heard of a see-through building? Well, it's one that has no interior walls because it has no tenants. Between 1983 and 1984, only about half of the increase in available commercial office space was reflected in rentals. The other half resulted in vacancies. You see, the tax benefits for investment in some kinds of real estate deals are so generous that being able to rent space may be secondary. The result is overbuilding and high vacancy rates in many American cities. It's time for changesweeping change. And when we return from the economic summit in May, we intend to move. Treasury Secretary Jim Baker has been meeting with congressional leaders and authors of other tax reform plans, and we expect to advance a proposal that can win bipartisan approval this year. Historically, tax reform has become a code word for tax increases, but our reform will not be a tax increase in disguise. And it probably won't please Washington's army of high-powered lobbyists. What our plan will do is give to the average family and every American with courage to invest in a new idea opportunities to make this economy the greatest miracle for growth and human progress the world has ever seen. With your support, this will be the last year the American people face today's high tax barriers. We'll propose reducing sharply personal tax rates, bringing the top rate down to 35 percent or lower, and providing most Americans a tax cut. Our plan will mark an historic commitment to American families, for we intend to increase significantly the personal exemption, which will be especially beneficial to low-income families, helping them leave welfare behind, find productive jobs, and join those now paying taxes and contributing to a bigger gross national product. We'll lower personal rates by broadening the base, in other words, eliminate the shelters that make tax avoidance legal. But longstanding provisions like deductions for your home mortgage will be maintained. As we lower rates on the people, we'll reduce corporate rates, too. In meeting concerns for fairness and neutrality, we must not jeopardize economic growth. My goal is to keep America the premier job-creating nation on Earth, and we intend to unleash the full power of entrepreneurship. Together, we can seize this historic moment. We can create a new tax code-clean, simple, and fair. We can make ours the land of the future, offering unlimited opportunity to all Americans who dare to live for their dreams. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
In a few days, Congress will vote on whether or not to support our proposal to help restore peace and democracy in Nicaragua. Few votes will ever be so important to the survival of democracy in Latin America and the Caribbean. Few votes will ever be so important to the national security of the United States. On March 1st, the leaders of the democratic resistance of Nicaragua, the so-called contras, sent a peace proposal to the Communists, who've taken over their country. The proposal called for a cease-fire and church-mediated negotiations that would lead to free and honest elections. We've asked the democratic resistance to extend their offer until June 1st, and we're asking Congress to show its support for peace negotiations by releasing humanitarian aid to the democratic resistance. This support is crucial. Negotiations would be our best and possibly last opportunity to steer the Sandinista Communists away from their present brutal course and back toward the democratic and peaceful promises of their revolution. The responsibility now rests squarely on the shoulders of Congress. A vote for humanitarian aid to the democratic resistance will signal the United States' resolve on this issue. And courage and resolve are the only way to convince the Sandinista Communists to come to the negotiating table. A vote against our proposal, however, could mean the beginning of the end to all hopes of peace and democracy in Central America. Already, the followers of Qadhafi and the Ayatollah Khomeini are in Nicaragua-about 2 hours by air from United States borders. And just this week, we confirmed the presence of Russian military personnel in the battle zones of northern Nicaragua. The Soviet terrorist-bloc nations know what is at stake in Nicaragua. That's why, in the 7 months since Congress cut off aid to the democratic resistance, they've been pouring in weapons and personnel to their Communist allies, hoping to wipe out the democratic forces while they're most vulnerable. And that's why, rather than negotiate with the democratic resistance, the Communists are still betting that the United States will abandon its friends. A recent article in the New York Times reported that the "Sandinistas pin hopes on Congress." You heard me right. The Sandinista Communists are lobbying your Senators and Representatives. Together with the misguided sympathizers in this country, they've been running a sophisticated disinformation campaign of lies and distortion. And now we're told that in a cynical attempt to manipulate public opinion and our Congress, the Communists may put forth an 11th hour so-called peace proposal, a proposal aimed at blocking aid to the democratic resistance and giving the Communists a free hand to tighten their grip on the Nicaraguan people. The Communists know that if they can persuade Congress to cut off aid, they'll never have to negotiate with the democratic opposition. And they believe if they can stop aid to the democratic resistance, nothing can stop them. Unfortunately, some are using this issue to play partisan politics. Before we'd even announced our peace plan, the Speaker of the House called our peace offer a dirty trick. How could church-mediated peace negotiations be a dirty trick? Do they really think the church would ever cooperate in a trick? The opponents of our plan in the House have announced a formula for turning the democratic resistance into homeless refugees. Their alternative to a plan for peace and democracy would only provide assistance to the democratic forces if they abandon their struggle to liberate Nicaraguain other words, surrender to communism. They would, in fact, aid the Soviet-Cuban. Sandinista effort to get rid of the democratic resistance. We're asking Congress to be consistent and support those who are fighting communism in Nicaragua, just as we support the democratic resistance in Afghanistan and Cambodia. Let me speak plainly. Any proposal that abandons over 15,000 members of a democratic resistance to Communists is not a compromise; it's a shameful surrender. If Congress ever approves such a proposal, it would hasten the consolidation of Nicaragua as a Communist-terrorist arsenal. And it would give a green light to Soviet-sponsored aggression throughout the American mainland, ultimately threatening our own security. But Congress can prevent a crisis by supporting peace negotiations now. Don't let the Sandinista Communists and their sympathizers be the only voices heard. Let our Members of Congress and Senators hear the voices of you who love liberty and democracy, too. Let's give peace a chance in Nicaragua and in all of Central America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Tuesday Nancy and I will be on our way to Bonn, West Germany, where I'll be meeting with the leaders of our most important trading partners. This is another in a series of meetings designed to enhance the economic cooperation between the free people of the world. By working together with our allies, we hope to ensure that the engines of growth and progress keep running with efficiency. We want to make certain that the fruits of open and free exchange are enjoyed by all and that free trade is a two-way proposition. In meetings like this, one can't help but be struck by the vitality of the Western allianceclear evidence of the relationship between freedom and economic progress. One of the purposes of this trip to Europe will be to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, the monumental catastrophe that inflicted death and destruction as mankind had never before witnessed. I think it's also fitting for us to commemorate this as an anniversary of peace and the beginning of a new relationship with former enemies, to take stock of all that's been accomplished in these 40 years of friendship. In these last four decades, the rise in the living conditions of people in the Western democracies has been nothing short of a miracle. The abundance we enjoy should lay to rest the lie that freedom must be sacrificed for progress to be made. Freedom not only is right; freedom works. It builds societies that are humane and positive in spirit. Citizens of democratic countries enjoy opportunity and well-being far beyond anything available to those forced to endure tyranny. A lack of faith in freedom often stems from the belief that people are not capable of making the tough decisions necessary for a country's security and economic health. Americans have proven these cynics wrong time and again. It wasn't that long ago we faced monstrously high inflation and economic stagnation here in the United States. As a people we stood at a crossroads, and instead of fearing our challenge Americans pushed forward with confidence and enthusiasm. Together, we cut the rate of inflation and brought back healthy growth. Our economy has produced 8 million new jobs in the last 28 months. Some of our European friends are calling it the American miracle. Well, it wasn't a miracle. By working together and making some needed changes, we turned a bad situation around. Now it's time for the next steptackling some fundamental problems and laying the foundation for a decade of economic growth. Last Wednesday night I went on television to explain to you the budget decisions we must make. Our greatest challenge is bringing down deficit spending and doing it in a way which will keep our economy vigorous and expanding. I worked out with Senator Dole and the Republican leadership of the Senate a proposal that will bring us within reach of a balanced budget by the end of the decade. It is a balanced effort of holding down the cost of defense and domestic programs while cutting from the Federal budget nonessential programs that are wasteful, inefficient, and, in more than a few cases, should never have been financed with your tax dollars in the first place. Many of these programs were brought on line at a time when Congress was acting like there was no limit to how much of your money they could spend. Today we know better, and it's time to trim the deadwood from the Federal budget. Many of our opponents in Congress are advocating a freeze in Federal spending and an increase in taxes. The across-the board freeze they advocate would limit worthwhile and absolutely needed programs while at the same time freeze in wasteful and inefficient ones. A freeze is really a decision not to make a decision. It is a retreat in front of special interest pressure. Raising taxes is also no alternative. First, the American people don't want their taxes increased. You demonstrated that overwhelmingly in the last election. Second, raising taxes carries the risk that it'll kick us back into recession, which would end up increasing the deficit. Third, raising taxes will simply make it more likely that Congress will increase spending. Slogans and easy answers, like a freeze or raising taxes, are not the way to go. The answer is responsible reduction of Federal spending. It will work if we have the courage to say no to the special interest groups. I hope you'll let your elected representatives know how you feel, that you support our efforts to trim wasteful programs and to put our economic house in order. When I'm meeting with our friends and allies in Europe this coming week, I'll do so with confidence because ultimately I know you'll make the right decision. Our free society is based on faith in the people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Greetings from Europe. I'm speaking to you from Bonn, West Germany. It's 6 o'clock in the evening here, and we've just completed the 11th annual economic summit among the world's 7 major industrial democracies, together with the European Commission. This year's summit is winding up on the eve of the 40th anniversary of the end of World War II. As is fitting, we celebrate the remarkable achievements of the world's family of free nations during these last four decades: peace has flourished; our economies have prospered, and technological advances have revolutionized our lives. The friendly atmosphere of our meetings made it difficult to imagine that the United States, France, Britain, and Canada were pitted against countries which today are among freedom's staunchest supporters-the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Italy. We celebrate our shared success, and we take heart that former enemies have been reconciled and are now partners and friends. All of us are looking to the future to what could and should be the next 40 years of growthgrowth of our economies and our freedom, growth of human progress in our own countries and around the world. I was encouraged that the leaders present acknowledged how together we can sustain a future in which the freedom of our people can fully flourish in a world at peace. On the economic front, I reviewed the progress America has enjoyed from reducing tax rates and increasing personal incentives. We all looked ahead to new and more vigorous efforts to reduce the heavy drag of government on our economies. I spoke of our own plans for a radical overhaul of our tax system, making it more simple and fair and bringing personal tax rates further down to strengthen the promise of growth well into the 1990's. One great challenge all our countries face is government overspending leading to dangerous deficits, which, if left unchecked, will mortgage our future and impoverish our children. Few people realize that America's deficit, as a percentage of our total economy, is about the same as or less than most other summit countries. All of us must work harder to cut wasteful, unnecessary government spending. On the trade front, it was clear that almost all of my summit partners want a 1986 target date to begin a new round of trade negotiations. These negotiations would be aimed at freer trade, more open markets, and greater competition worldwide. I'm heartened by the progress on this issue since last year's summit. Everyone now recognizes new negotiations are needed soon. We're pleased that plans for these negotiations, so important to world prosperity, have gained momentum. In the area of security, we reaffirmed our determination to remain vigilant while working for progress in the Geneva arms control talks with the Soviets. The Soviet Union continues to be the major source of aggression in the world, building up its military forces far beyond any defensive needs and, through those forces and those of its satellites, promoting violence and repression across the globe, from Afghanistan to Cambodia to Nicaragua. So, we the democratic nations must continue to maintain our strength and keep the peace to enhance deterrence while striving, through negotiations, to achieve equitable and verifiable reductions in nuclear arsenals. The West will receive no gifts from the Soviets. Allied unity and resolve is the only message we can expect them to respect and respond to in a constructive way. We also discussed our research on a nonnuclear defense, a defense not to harm people, but to prevent nuclear missiles from reaching our soil. I explained that this research will not produce results overnight and is no substitute for allied strategic modernization, but that over time, if our research proves out, we could lessen the threat of nuclear attack and begin to get rid of these dangerous weapons. Our host, Chancellor Kohl, welcomes SDI research, and other summit leaders said they'll examine how they might participate in this immensely hopeful undertaking. One unexpected but encouraging development in the meetings here in Bonn was the real interest expressed by all the leaders in cracking down on international drug trafficking. Recognizing the terrible scourge of drugs and the danger they pose to our youth, we all agreed to intensify our efforts to tackle this problem. As a matter of fact, Nancy has just returned from Rome, where she had a private audience to discuss this great social problem with His Holiness Pope John Paul II, who has also spoken out against this terrible evil. The Bonn summit made clear that 40 years after defeating fascism, freedom continues to shower us with infinite blessings. But as long as another system drives relentlessly to expand and control, we must be freedom's protector. If we are, if we remain as strong and true as we must be, these next 40 years will truly be the golden age of democracy. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I've just completed an extraordinary 10-day visit to Europe, where I attended the Bonn Economic Summit and helped mark with European leaders the 40th anniversary of V-E Day. It was an exciting trip and a demanding one, and it left Nancy and me with a number of unforgettable memories. But sometimes the most memorable moment is something you notice by chance, that hits your heart and yields an unforgettable image. For me it was the sight of an elderly woman standing among the onlookers as we drove through the streets of Strasbourg, France, on the way to the European Parliament to help mark the 40th anniversary of V-E Day. Most of the onlookers waved and smiled, but the elderly woman who had stepped off the sidewalk and onto the street was waving a handkerchief in the air and smiling and yelling "Hello." She looked just like the young French women who waved their handkerchiefs 40 years ago as the American convoys drove through the newly freed nation of France, and then I realized, maybe she was one of those young women. And as we drove by her, I thought perhaps she knows better than all of us what the anniversary of V-E Day is all about. It was a wonderful trip, but it's good to be home. And it's especially good to be home this weekend because tomorrow is a holiday very close to our heartsit's Mother's Day. Mothers are the creators of the family, and the family is the center of society. It's no accident that America chose to honor all mothers with a special holiday. After all, mothers have made a unique contribution to our country. They're the main communicators of the values by which our nation has flourished for more than 200 yearsthe values of honesty, responsibility, decency, and personal effort. By imparting these and other values to our children, the mothers of America quite literally shape the future. Mother's Day takes on a special significance this year for a number of reasons. One is the extraordinary phenomenon of the mothers of America joining together to press for much needed change in our society. There's Mothers Against Drunk Driving, the remarkable group started by a woman whose daughter was killed several years ago by a drunk driver. MADD, as it is called, has been responsible for helping bring tougher laws against drunk drivers in many States. The group has also heightened public awareness of the problem of drunk driving and made our children more aware of its hazards. There is also the growing number of women who've joined in the fight against drug abuse. Recently in Washington there was a very important conference for the wives of 17 heads of state and government leaders on how they can strengthen families and help combat the epidemic of drug addiction among our children. That meeting was conceived and chaired by another Reagan named Nancy. I'm deeply proud of her involvement in this crusade, proud of her heartfelt commitment and the sacrifices she's made to help children in their struggle against drug addiction. Nancy, like any mother, feels pain when she sees and hears the cry of a child. So, I hope you don't mind my taking this moment to say thanks Nancy and happy Mother's Day. And like all of you, I find my thoughts turning to my own mother, Nelle Reagan. She was truly a remarkable womanever so strong in her determination yet always tender, always giving of herself to others. She never found time in her life to complain; she was too busy living those values she sought to impart in my brother and myself. She was the greatest influence on my life, and as I think of her this weekend I remember the words of Lincoln, "All that I am, or hope to be, I owe to my mother." There's a group of mothers I'd like to mention, whose lives aren't remarked upon enough, but who should be given special mention today. That is the group of mothers who've made an extraordinary personal commitment by adopting children with special needs. These are mothers who have adopted older children, often foster children, and mothers who have taken in children who are unwell, either emotionally or physically, or who need special care of one sort or another. No one knows the heartaches and joys these mothers go through helping those who are most in need of a parent's loving concern. Finally, one other group deserves special honors, it's the largest of allthe working mothers of America. Some devote their full time to raising families, others combine that responsibility with jobs in the marketplace. Some are breadwinners; others are not. But all deserve our respect and thanks. All of these mothers work hard; in fact, they must be the hardest working people in America. Happy Mother's Day to these and all other mothers. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Not too long ago one of our Ambassadors visited an American armored cavalry regiment stationed on the NATO line in Germany. As he returned to his helicopter, he was followed by a young 19-year-old trooper. The trooper asked him if he could get a message to the President. Well, the Ambassador said that sometimes getting messages to the President was part of his job. And the young trooper then said, "Will you tell him we're proud to be here, and we ain't scared of nothin." Well, not long ago the Ambassador was in Washington and told me the sequel to that incident. I'd repeated a story in a talk that was carried on our Voice of America radio program, and there in that base in Germany the young trooper heard the broadcast and knew that I'd received his message. His commanding officer said that he ran down the company street yelling: "The system works! The system works!" Well, the system does work, but not just because Ambassadors can get messages from a 19-year-old trooper to the President. Our systemthis way of life we call democracy and freedomreally works because of the dedicated Americans like that GI in Germany, who've always been willing to defend our way of life from foreign aggressorsfrom those who do not love freedom and seek to destroy it. Today is Armed Forces Day, a day we set aside to remember and thank those Americans who wear our country's uniform and who serve our nation in so many places around the globe. Many are far from home, and things you and I take for granted-family, friends, all the good things that go with life in our hometownsthey've given all these things up for the sake of a challenge and to answer a call. The challenge is the task of defending freedom, and the call they've answered is summarized in three words: duty, honor, country. So, on Armed Forces Day, let's remember the debt we owe those in uniform. News of this broadcast will be carried on the Armed Forces Network, and I know I speak for all Americans when I say to our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen: We thank you for the job you're doing and the sacrifices you're making for all of us at home. And we're grateful and proud of you for your devotion to country and to the cause of freedom. Now, remembering to say thank you is very important, but we here at home have a greater responsibility. As you know, since my first day in office, restoring respect for America's military and rebuilding our nation's defenses has been one of my highest priorities. It remains so today. I'm sure you've read about the discussions going on in the Congress on military spending. I'll reserve comment on them until the Congress has completed its current work, but I do want to say this much: One of the things that has most deeply disturbed Americans during the past decade, even though it isn't always talked about as much as other political issues, was the expansion of Soviet influence beyond their borders-Angola, Ethiopia, Cambodia, Afghanistan, and Nicaragua are cases in point. This trend was of natural concern to the American people, especially right here on the continent. The tendency of some leaders to shut their eyes to the real world, their lack of realism about our foreign adversaries and communism's unrelenting assault on human freedom requires that we face up to the need to restore effective deterrence and help our friends. Americans don't want to take chances with our national security. It's just one of the strongest impulses in our body politic. Americans know an act of Congress can repeal vital military expenditures. They also know what an act of Congress can't repeal: the aggressive tendencies and intentions of our adversaries. So, I want to say today I'll be conferring with the Congress and with Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger on the military budget. And believe me, our attack on waste and fraud in procurementlike discovering that $436 hammeris going to continue, but we must have adequate military appropriations. As President Kennedy said: "There is no discount on defense." My first responsibility as President is the safety and security of the American people. So, if a suitable compromise can't be worked out, I won't hesitate to put our case before the American people and ask for your support. On this Armed Forces Day let's say thanks to all Americans in uniform, but let's make sure we give them the tools they need to do their job. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: If you were tuned in to the radio one Saturday in the middle of April, you may have heard me speak about one of the most compelling issues of our timetax simplification. It was April 13th then, and I'm sure many of you were approaching those final moments before your tax forms were due with a rising sense of frustration, even anger. Nobody's ever going to enjoy paying taxes; it just isn't human nature. But I also know that the American people wouldn't find the whole process so aggravating if they didn't feel our tax system was shot through with unfairness, inequality, and waste. The American people are always willing, even eager, to do their duty. But you quite naturally resent it when you see others shirking theirs. It rankles to know that your tax rates are so high because others who can afford high-priced lawyers and tax consultants are able to manipulate the system to avoid paying their fair share. And it simply adds insult to injury when, on top of a large tax bill to the IRS, you have to pay a professional to tell you how much you owe. The United States tax code is so mammoth, so incredibly complex that even experts can't agree on what it says. We've seen the damage an unfair tax system can do to our economy, our pocketbooks, our faith in American justice, and to our confidence in government institutions. Well, that's all going to change. Next Tuesday we'll announce an historic change in the tax laws to remove the dark cloud of unfairness from our tax system. We're going to overhaul the whole rickety, jerry-rigged tax code and come out with a newer, sleeker model that will not only be fairer and simpler but will significantly reduce taxes for the majority of all Americans. Starting today we're declaring the 1040 tax form an endangered species. Our plan is to make the paying of your taxes so easy that many Americans won't even have to fill out a form. We're going to do away with the inequities and the economically unjustifiable tax breaks, things like deductions for windmills and so-called educational cruises on luxury ocean liners. By closing such loopholes, we'll be able to lower taxes and begin to flatten the present steeply rising system of tax brackets so that you can keep more of each additional dollar you earn. We want to knock down the barriers on the road to success so that all Americans can go as far as their hard work, skill, imagination, and creativity will take them. Closing wasteful business loopholes will also allow us to lower tax rates on America's businesses and entrepreneurs. We stand today on the threshold of a new technological age that is already beginning to revolutionize our lives for the better and open the way to a future of almost unlimited possibility. By lowering rates, we can unleash an entrepreneurial explosion of business formation, job growth, and technological innovation that will rival even our most optimistic dreams. Our plan will also recognize the central role of the American family in preserving and protecting our nation's values. Raising a family has always involved hardship and sacrifice along with the love and the joy. But for most of these last four decades, the Government hasn't been making it any easier. Since 1948 the personal exemption, which allows breadwinners to deduct a certain amount from their taxable income for every man, woman, and child who is dependent on them, has dwindled to a mere fraction of its original value. The resulta tax increase of immense proportions that struck directly at the pocketbook of America's families. In effect, it's been families that have borne the burden of the explosive growth in government and domestic spending these last four decades. Well, it's time families got a little help, and that's what we propose to do. By greatly expanding the personal exemption, raising the standard deduction, lowering rates, and retaining the home mortgage interest deduction on principal residences, we're going to make it a lot easier for struggling lower-income households and for the working-poor families to climb up the ladder of success. This must be a priority of a profamily, pro-opportunity society. The timid, the cynical, and the special interests will combine to say that what we wantfairness, hope, and opportunityis impossible. Well, they'll be wrong; they've been wrong so many times in these last 4 1/2 years. Nothing can stop America when it hears the call to justice. No one can stop America from doing what it knows is right. On Tuesday night I will be announcing the details of this historic tax package on nationwide TV. I hope you'll tune in and listen to what I have to say. This could be the single most important step we'll take in this decade to fulfill the American dream of hope and opportunity for us and for future generations. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I wonder how many of you know about the Quaker whose patience was sorely tried when the cow he was trying to milk kept kicking the milk pail over. Finally, he got up from the milking stool, faced the cow, and said, "Thou knowest I cannot strike thee. Thou knowest I cannot even curse thee. But doest thou knowest I can sell thee to someone who will?" It's been a busy week here in Washington. We've made a proposal for merging tax reforms. It's also been a week in which we tried to bring a little Quaker wisdom here, too. And let me explain why the two go together. You see, Washington doesn't take to change very well. Special interest groups set up offices here, hire some energetic staff members, make it a point to get to know the right people, and then use their influence to win special treatment. The accumulation of all these special privilegesand the tax code is the best examplefrequently leads to a tangle of confusing laws and chaotic regulations. It's the public interest that suffers. And the ones who have to try and make sense of all the rules and regulations, not to mention footing the bill for the special privileges, are Americans like you who can't afford to hire a lobbyist in Washington. Well, that's where the President comes in. The whole idea of the Presidency is having somebody in the Oval Office who can try to get above the bickering and buttonholing in the cloakrooms and corridors and say, "Look, enough of this. Let's just get something done for a change that will help the people." You see, the President and the Vice President are the only ones in Washington elected by all the people. In a way then, the President should be the people's lobbyist, your lobbyist. And any President who wants to succeed should remember his first obligation is to the people. They elected him, and only they can give him the support he needs to get things done. Well, that's certainly been the case in the last 4 years. The victories we've won belong to the people. You made them happen by writing, telegramming, or speaking personally to your Representatives and Senators. You made your voice heard here in Washington, a voice strong enough to make the politicians do what was right, not for the special interests but for America. So, this week, once again, I've been trying to do my job by giving you the facts and asking for your help. I won't spend a lot of time right now telling you about the current problems with our tax code. Each of you has had to face that nightmare every April 15th. So, that's why I proposed a sweeping new reform that will reduce the 14 tax brackets we now have to only 3a reform that will reduce the many special tax privileges. If our plan goes through, making out your taxes each year will be more simple, and it will reduce all those feelings of unfairness and injustice that so many Americans rightly harbor about our current tax code. In addition to bringing simplicity and fairness, our plan is also profamily. By raising your standard deduction, boosting exemptions to $2,000 for each taxpayer and dependent, and by expanding the IRA's to include spouses staying at home, our plan is progrowth. And, too, most people would pay lower taxes. And should you decide to work overtime or put more into your savings, the Government would take less away than it does now. And needy familiesthose at the poverty line or near itwould no longer have to pay Federal income taxes at all. New incentives in the tax code would help them rely less on welfare and public assistance. We'd also be giving small business a hand, the companies largely responsible for providing most of the new jobs in America. Our tax reform package has many other advantages. Believe me, I could go on. There isn't time for that because I need to get back to that Quaker and his cow. You see, here in Washington the special interests are trying to pick apart our tax reform package. Just as it has opposed so many of the other good things we've tried to do for the American people, much of official Washington is going to oppose this tax reform, too. That's where all of you and a little Quaker wisdom come in. Just like that Quaker's cow, many in official Washington make a habit of kicking over the American people's milk pail. And as my chief of staff Don Regan said recently, we're going to need the people to go talk to the cow and maybe ask him a few questions about how he or she likes it here on the farm. So, yes, we very much need your support, especially those of you who've never written before to your Representatives or Senators. Please make your views known, and remind official Washington that you expect to be listened to. Tell them the time for America's tax plan is long overdue. And tell them it's time they stopped letting the entrenched interests and special privileges kick over the milk pail. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I want to give you some encouraging news about the opportunities for liberty, democracy, and peace in Central America, particularly in Nicaragua. This hope is based on a renewed chance for the United States to provide support to those who struggle against totalitarian communism on the mainland of this hemisphere. We're being given something very preciousa second chance to do what is right. Recently, on April 4th, I met here in Washington with Adolfo Calero, Arturo Cruz, and Alfonso Robelo, the three principal leaders of the Nicaraguan democratic opposition. I asked these three brave men to extend their offer of a cease-fire and a church-mediated dialog with the Sandinista regime in Managua. Those exiled patriots and their followers made this proposal in San Jose, Costa Rica, on March 1 in a declaration of unity, common cause, and democratic purpose. Unfortunately, their proposal was immediately rejected by the Sandinista Communists who similarly rebuffed our April 4th endorsement of this realistic peace proposal. Shortly thereafter, our House of Representatives voted not to provide assistance to the Nicaraguan freedom fighters. The Sandinistas and their cohorts believed the way was clear for the consolidation of their Communist regime. Nicaragua's dictator raced to Moscow and the bloc capitals of Eastern Europe to seal closer relations with these Communist tyrannies. And now the Nicaraguans are not only continuing to import offensive weapons, they have stepped up their attacks on neighboring Honduras and unarmed Costa Rica. But as I said, we have a second chance to do what is right. On Thursday the United States Senate, in a show of bipartisan support, voted to aid the freedom fighters struggling for liberty and democracy in Nicaragua. The Senate has seen that their struggle is ours, that they need and deserve our help. In the House some claim that the U.S. plans to become militarily involved in Central America. Well, no such plan exists. That charge is simply a distraction from the two paramount questions that must be faced by every Member: Will you support those struggling for democracy? Will you resist the Soviets' brazen attempt to impose communism on our doorstep or won't you? There's a bipartisan proposal in the House to keep alive the dream of freedom and peace in Nicaragua. It'll be put forward next Wednesday by Republicans Bob Michel of Illinois and Joe McDade of Pennsylvania and Democrat Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma. It is essential that this bipartisan amendment be passed without any weakening of its provisions in order for us to have a hope for peace, democracy, and reconciliation in Nicaragua. The legislation will provide $27 million worth of assistance to the freedom fighters, and that's not much compared to the hundreds of millions the Communists are spending to prop up their Nicaraguan dictatorship. The solution to the tragedy in Nicaragua is the very same the Congress has supported in El Salvadorliberty, democracy, and reconciliation. In El Salvador we've worked with Congress and stood firmly behind President Duarte and the democratic forces. We seek the same goals in Nicaragua. As in El Salvador, the United States stands with the democratic Senator-Senate, I should say, against the enemies of liberty on both left and right. And the freedom fighters share our goals for democracy. One of their leaders, Adolfo Calero, said this week, "We of the Nicaraguan democratic resistance believe that true peace can only come with democracy and that democracy is a precondition for peacenot the other way around." To seize this opportunity before us, to seize this second chance now offered, the Congress and the executive branch must embark on a bipartisan course for a negotiated political settlement, national reconciliation, democracy, and genuine self-determination for the people of Nicaragua. Just 6 years ago, the people of Nicaragua-students, labor unions, businessmen, and the churchfought for a democratic revolution, only to see it betrayed by a handful of Soviet-backed Communists. We must not sit by while the Nicaraguan people are saddled with a Communist dictatorship that threatens this entire hemisphere. A House vote for humanitarian aid to the freedom fighters will send a strong bipartisan message that we will not tolerate the evolution of Nicaragua into another Cuba nor will we remain with our heads in the sand while Nicaragua becomes a Soviet client state with military installations constructed for use by the Soviet bloc. A Soviet base in Nicaragua would give the Russians a foothold on the American mainland. America's proudest moments have come when Democrats and Republicans united for the cause of democracy. That is the path which is succeeding in El Salvador, and that is the path that will succeed in Nicaragua, too, if we support the bipartisan proposal to aid the freedom fighters. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In less than 3 weeks we'll be celebrating the greatest blow ever struck for the cause of freedomthe Declaration of Independence. "We hold these truths to be self-evident," our Founding Fathers proclaimed, "that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain Unalienable Rights." That declaration inspired our nation to reach new heights of human freedom, but its promise wasn't complete until we abolished the shame of slavery from our land and, in the lifetime of many of us, wrote the civil rights statutes that outlawed discrimination by race, religion, gender, or national origin. Discrimination is still not yet a thing of the past, unfortunately; and for the last 4 1/2 years, this administration has acted vigorously to defend and extend every American 's fundamental right to equal treatment. The Justice Department has worked energetically to end discrimination in employment, voting, housingin all the areas covered by law. Our record on enforcing minority voting rights is at the top of the list. And we've increased to an all-time high the number of criminal civil rights cases filed. We have a proud record on civil rights. The principle that guides us and the principle embodied in the law is one of nondiscrimination. I'm sure that you have all seen the statue representing justice that presides in many of our courtroomsthe woman with the blindfold covering her eyes. Her eyes are covered because true justice should never depend on whether you're rich or poor, or black or white, or if you're Hispanic or Asian, or if your ancestors came from Italy, Poland, Latvia, or any other country, including Ireland, where some of my family's from. Equal treatment and equality before the lawthese are the foundations on which a just and free society is built. But there are some today who, in the name of equality, would have us practice discrimination. They have turned our civil rights laws on their head, claiming they mean exactly the opposite of what they say. These people tell us that the Government should enforce discrimination in favor of some groups through hiring quotas, under which people get or lose particular jobs or promotions solely because of their race or sex. Some bluntly assert that our civil rights laws only apply to special groups and were never intended to protect every American. Well, they couldn't be more wrong. When the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was being debated in the Congress, Senator Hubert Humphrey, one of its leading advocates, said he'd start eating the pages of the act if it contained any language which provides that an employer will have to hire on the basis of percentage or quota. But I think if Senator Humphrey saw how some people today are interpreting that act, he'd get a severe case of indigestion. The truth is, quotas deny jobs to many who would have gotten them otherwise, but who weren't born a specified race or sex. That's discrimination pure and simple and is exactly what the civil rights laws were designed to stop. Quotas also cast a shadow on the real achievements of minorities, which makes quotas a double tragedy. In 1980 and 1984 I ran for President and told you I was opposed to quotas. In response to your mandate, our administration has worked to return the civil rights laws to their original meaningto prevent discrimination against any and all Americans. William Bradford Reynolds, the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, has played a key role in that effort. Brad Reynolds is not only a tireless fighter against discrimination, he's a brilliant and dedicated lawyer. Recently, I nominated Brad Reynolds to be Associate Attorney Generalthe number three job in the Justice Department. He deserves that promotion, but his nomination is being opposed by some who don't agree with us about civil rights, by some who favor the discrimination of quotas. Brad Reynolds' qualifications and character are impeccable. Indeed everyone knows Brad Reynolds is a man of integrity and strong ideals, that he's firmly committed to the same vision of a just society that I am. I've nominated Brad Reynolds to carry out my policies, the policies for which you elected me, the policies that reflect our best principles as a nation. I'm confident that the Senate will confirm him. Twenty-two years ago Martin Luther King proclaimed his dream of a society rid of discrimination and prejudice, a society where people would be judged on the content of their character, not by the color of their skin. That's the vision our entire administration is committed toga society that keeps faith with the promise of our Declaration of Independence, a proud society in which all men and women truly are created free and equal under God. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Later today, Nancy and I will be going to Andrews Air Force Base to be with the families and friends of four American marines, four young men whose bodies are being returned after they were murdered by Communist guerrillas in El Salvador last Wednesday night. We will carry with us all of the grief and sorrow and rising anger of a nation whose patience has been stretched to its limit. I will speak to the country and to the loved ones of those brave men who defended our freedom. But before we go, I must also speak to you about important deliberations that are now taking place in Congress. We've made considerable progress this year in achieving the spending reductions needed to bring down the budget deficit and keep our economy growing and producing new jobs. The Senate has passed a plan for $56 billion of budget savings, which would also allow us to keep most of our defense-rebuilding program on track. We all owe a debt of gratitude to the Senate for their courage. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same about the plan passed by the House. It is not a true budget savings plan. Many of its so-called savings are simply phantom cuts. Further, the House makes no meaningful effort to shrink this gargantuan Federal spending machine that gobbles up your taxes and divvies them out to a multitude of special interests. Unlike the Senate, which has proposed real, substantial, and permanent reforms, the cuts of the House budgeteers are not enough and certainly not permanent. The freezes and other one-time measures the House proposes are not solutions that would permit us to get a handle on Federal overspending, they would only postpone the inevitable. And what's even worse in these perilous times, the House budget would send a signal of weakness by cutting purchasing power for vital defense needs. All of us know that there's been waste in defense spending. But after years of others closing their eyes to this problem, it's our administration that has begun uncovering and rooting out that waste and going after the defense contractors who shamelessly cheat America. And this is why we've taken an additional step. This week I appointed a special bipartisan blue ribbon commission to review defense management and procurement. So, yes, we can and must eliminate waste. But it is sheer folly to blindly weaken ourselves when our adversaries are conspiring and working so hard to bleed and cripple America. It is time to stop treating our Defense Establishment and intelligence agencies like enemies and concentrate our attention and anger on the true enemies of freedom and democracy in the world. For the past 2 weeks, the House and Senate have been meeting in a conference committee trying to come up with a final budget for the next fiscal year. I'm sorry to report that they haven't made much progress. So far, the House has turned away from realism on defense and refused to accept the many program reforms and permanent savings in domestic spending that are proposed in the Senate version. And, as is predictable, whenever sufficient will is lacking to make the tough decisions on spending, calls are raised for tax increases. Well, if I must, I'll repeat it until I'm blue in the face: I will veto any tax increase the Congress sends me. And I'm pleased to say I have been promised the votes to sustain that veto. All of us have a great deal at stake in the outcome of these Senate-House negotiations for the sake of both our national security and our economic well-being. If the conference committee reports a budget that achieves substantial and permanent changes, it will pave the way for continuing the low inflation and falling interest rates that will keep our economy growing and keep Americans working. If, on the other hand, the process breaks down and the Congress can't do what's right on defense or on controlling domestic spending, then the consequences will be very bad. America will be seen as too weak to respond to threats, and all the progress we've made in our economy will be placed at risk. I'm asking for your support to make Congress understand this is a moment in our history when all of us should pull together and put our national interest above partisan politics. The challenges we face are big, but not too big if we Republicans and Democrats unite for a stronger and safer America. We still have time. So, let's get started. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We continue to work for the release of the American hostages held in Lebanon. This terrorism reminds us of the threat posed to open societies and of the great challenges we face in a world where many disdain our values and seek to harm us and our way of life. One of those challenges is our need to counter the rash of spy activities that threaten our security and interests at home and abroad and to improve our own intelligence-gathering capabilities. The number and sophistication of Soviet bloc and other hostile intelligence service activities have been increasing in recent years. The Soviet Union is a closed society whose rulers fear the intoxication of freedom, indeed fear it so much they forbid their people to compete freely with us in the great race to create and invent our future for the 21st century. As the West pulled ahead, the Soviets embarked on a major effort to catch up by stealing or buying what they need from classified information on American satellites, reports on future weapon systems, including our combat aircraft bombers, to our most advanced technologies from high-tech areas like Silicon Valley in California. Besides espionage against our most sensitive secrets, theft of the high technology upon which our defense depends, the Soviets have intensified what they call "active measures"propaganda and disinformation meant to mislead Western governments and their citizens, subversion, forgeries, and covert action. For example, while American officials and other proponents of freedom are systematically excluded from Soviet radio or TV, hardly a week goes by without a so-called Soviet journalist or scholar on our own airwaves. These men and women should at least be identified for what they arepropagandists whose appearances and statements are totally controlled by the Communist Party. The Soviets, Communist-bloc nations, and surrogates elsewhere rely on a huge apparatus, including the KGB, to spy on us and influence our public opinion. To equate the KGB with the CIA is an injustice to the CIA and a grave mistake. Far more than an intelligence service, the KGB is a political police operation. As its motto says, "The sword and shield of the Communist Party of the U.S.S.R." The KGB mission to shield the rigid Soviet dictatorship from any internal challenge, to weaken and discredit the United States and the various alliances we've built up, particularly the NATO alliance, and to advance the Soviet quest for power to destroy freedom makes it unique in the world. What can be done? Well, we can counter this hostile threat and still remain true to our values. We don't need to fight repression by becoming repressive ourselves, by adopting such restrictions as internal passports for our citizens. But we need to put our cleverness and determination to work, and we need to deal severely with those who betray our country. We should begin by recognizing that spying is a fact of life and that all of us need to be better informed about the unchanging realities of the Soviet system. We're in a long twilight struggle with an implacable foe of freedom. Next, we need to reduce the size of the hostile intelligence threat we're up against in this country. Some 30 to 40 percent of the more than 2,500 Soviet-bloc officials in this country are known or suspected intelligence officers and all can be called upon by the KGB. We need to bring the number of their intelligence officers to a more manageable number. We need a balance between the size of the Soviet diplomatic presence in the United States and the U.S. presence in the Soviet Union. The Soviets currently have a huge advantage. Now, we intend to take steps to accomplish this, and we need to better control foreign intelligence agents working at the U.N., who have utilized that organization as a spy nest. Another priority is to improve our own counterintelligence during the seventies-well, I should say during the seventies, we began cutting back our manpower and resources and imposed unnecessary restrictions on our security and counterintelligence officials. With help from Congress we've begun to rebuild, but we must persevere. We must work for better coordination between counterintelligence agencies, better analysis of hostile threats, and learn from the mistakes of past restrictions, which unduly hampered us. There is no quick fix to this problem. Without hysteria or finger pointing, let us move calmly and deliberately together to protect freedom. We've developed a list of things to be accomplished in the counterintelligence and security areas. I'm tasking Cabinet officers to implement the improvements and reforms in every one of these areas on a priority basis. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to take a few minutes out of your Fourth of July weekend, if I might, to talk about business. It's summer in Washington, and as sure as the heat and humidity, we could have predicted another seasonal occurrence: Once again, the budget process has broken down. Even with dangerously large deficits looming over the horizon threatening to destroy the economic progress we've made, it's still business as usual when it comes to the budget. We can only hope that the House will cooperate with us in doing what is right for America. Unfortunately, as it stands now, the budget proposed by the House is simply not a serious document. At best it could win a prize for creative bookkeeping. Huge so-called savings are simply assumed or invented, funds are juggled back and forth between accounts to show phony deficit reductions, and billions of dollars of expenses are just wished away. Let me give you one example. Right now the Government charges the oil companies for their offshore leasessort of a yearly rent for the use of Federal property. Well, the House decided that they would take the next 4 years of revenue from certain offshore leases and count it all in 1986. Now, sure, that reduced the 1986 deficit by $4 billion, but it increased our deficits in later years by exactly that same amount. A full quarter of the so-called deficit reductions in the House budget are gimmicks like this. Most of the rest comes from raiding the national defense. There is nothing proportionate or fair in the House's budgetary assault on defense. They propose making over half their reductions in this one area, which accounts for less than a third of total spending. What the House Budget Committee calls a defense spending freeze is really a drastic cut requiring a reduction from current plans in research and development, construction, and procurement of 19 percent in 1986, 23 percent in 1987, and 28 percent in 1988. If the House budget were adopted, it would deliver a severe blow to our national security. The Senate has proposed a budget that is responsible and fair, that holds real defense spending constant and makes the necessary structural changes in domestic spending that will enable us to substantially reduce these deficits. But when the Senate and House budget conferees met, it quickly became clear that the House refused to give up its gimmicks or consider real cuts in domestic spending. If the pattern of past years repeats itself, we can expect the obstructionists to keep the process stymied until the final night before the deadline when they'll go into a budgetary feeding frenzy, loading up huge spending measures with goodies for every special interest group in sight. Well, enough is enough. We refuse to make a choice between a budget that threatens our national security and a spending orgy that undermines our economy. Of course, as they do every year, some in Congress are using this annual collapse of the budget process as an excuse to call for a tax increase. Well, I've promised before and I will repeat that promise today, I will veto any tax hike that comes across my desk, no matter how it's disguised. And I'm glad to say that I have more than enough votes pledged in the House to sustain that veto. I have some advice for those who talk about tax hikes: Save your breath. I'm going to hold their feet to the fire on this budget until they do the right thing and get government spending under control. I'm happy to be able to report that the Senate Judiciary Committee will be voting on a bill next week that could put some discipline back in the budget process: the balanced budget amendment. Why shouldn't the U.S. Government be held to even the minimum standards of accountability that we demand of the smallest commercial bank? It's true that amending the Constitution is a lengthy and difficult procedure. Well, that's all the more reason to start right away. More immediate relief would come from a line-item veto that would enable me to veto individual budget items. And that is the way to cut the pork out of the massive appropriations bills that Congress sends me, without vetoing that part of the billessentially human needs and our national security. If Congress can't or won't stand up to the special interests, give Presidents the line-item veto. This President would be glad to take them on. By cutting taxes and stamping out inflation, we've put our economy back on the track of strong and solid growth. America's like a house that we build stronger and prouder every day. But right now, the American economy has termites. It's time to clean them out once and for all. Please tell your Representatives not to waste more time or money, but to come back here ready to put our fiscal house in order and make government live within its means. We must reduce the deficit and make a start on achieving a balanced budget. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a television address to the Nation on March 23, 1983, I challenged the scientific community to change the course of history by embarking on a research effort to counter Soviet threats with measures purely defensivemeasures to reassure people their security no longer depends alone on threats of mutual nuclear annihilation to deter a Soviet attack, but measures enabling us to intercept and destroy ballistic missiles before they reach our soil or that of our allies. A nonnuclear strategic defense makes good sense. It's better to protect lives than to avenge them. But another reason, equally simple and compelling, persuades us to its merit. As the Book of Luke says: "If a strong man shall keep his court well guarded, he shall live in peace." Well, SDI, our Strategic Defense Initiative, could prove crucial to guarding security and peace for America and her allies. The strategic challenges we face are far different from those in 1972, when the United States and the Soviet Union signed the SALT I and antiballistic missile treaties. When those treaties were signed, certain assumptions about the Soviets were made thatwell, to put it charitablyhave not proven justified. For example, it was assumed the treaties would lead to a stable balance and, ultimately, to real reductions in strategic arms. But the Soviet Union has never accepted any meaningful and verifiable reductions in offensive nuclear arms-none. It was assumed the treaties were based on acceptance of parity in offensive weapons systems, but the Soviets have continued to race for superiority. As former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown put it, "When we build, they build. When we stop, they build." It was assumed the Soviets would accept the innocent notion that being mutually vulnerable to attack was in our common interest. They haven't. The Soviets have repeatedly condemned as provocative our research on defense against their first-strike missiles, while blanketing their own country with the most sophisticated air defense system ever seen to protect against our second-strike bombers. And while we dismantled our lone ABM system 10 years ago, the Soviets have consistently improved the world's only missile defense system deployed around Moscow. They've also developed and deployed the world's only operational killer satellite system and then proceeded to condemn the United States for daring even to test such a weapon. It was assumed that an effective defense would not be feasible in 1972. But in that very year, Soviet Marshal Grechko testified to the Supreme Soviet: "The treaty on limiting ABM systems imposes no limitations on the performance of research and experimental work aimed at resolving the problem of defending the country against nuclear missile attack." Thus, the Soviets have devoted a huge share of their military budget to a sophisticated strategic defense program which, in resources already allocated, far exceeds what the United States anticipates spending in the current decade. Finally, it was assumed that the agreements signed would be complied with, but the Soviets are seriously violating them in both offensive and defensive areas. It is the Soviet Union that has violated the 1972 ABM treaty with its construction of a massive radar facility at Krasnoyarsk. Further, the Soviet Union has tested and deployed sophisticated air defense systems which we judge may have capabilities against ballistic missiles. Given these facts, is it not preposterous for the Soviets, already researching defense technologies for two decades, to now condemn our embryonic SDI program? And as Paul Nitze, one of my chief arms control advisers, pointed out, Soviet hypocrisy is even more glaring when we realize who's taking advantage of our open society to propagandize against our SDI program. A letter to the New York Times denouncing SDI was signed by the very Soviet scientists who've been developing the Soviet strategic defense program; other Soviet scientists who signed have spent their entire careers developing offensive weapons. I intend to mention this when I meet with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva this November. I will tell him the United States not only has the right to go forward with research for a strategic missile defense, but in light of the scale of their program we'd be the greatest fools on Earth not to do so. We're going to put our best scientists to work. We're going to cooperate with our allies. We're going to push forward in full compliance with the ABM treaty on a broad-based research program, whose results to date are immensely encouraging. And, yes, I hope we will one day develop a security shield that destroys weapons, not people. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm talking to you today from a little makeshift studio just outside my room in Bethesda Naval Hospital. And at the moment, I'm remembering the little boy who wrote me a letter back in 1981 after I was shot and said, "Mr. President, you'd better get well quick, or you'll have to make your speech to Congress in your pajamas." Well, today I'm in street clothes again so I can go home this afternoon. I'm feeling fine, and there's a lot I want to share with you. So, here goes. First off, I'm feeling great, but I'm getting a little restless. A lot of you know how it is when you have to endure some enforced bed rest. You get this feeling that life's out there, and it's a big, shiny apple, and you just can't wait to get out and take a bite of it. I'm eager to get back to work. I've been keeping close track of things that are going on, especially the budget process in Congress. I'll tell you what I think of the House budget proposal so far: I hope it gets well soon. In fact, I told one of the fine surgeons who operated on me that if Congress can't make the spending cuts we need, I'm going to send him up to Capitol Hill to do some real cutting. I know some are saying that we can just keep going with business as usual in the Federal spending department. But, well, forgive me, I don't have as much stomach for that kind of talk as I used to. But that's for another day. Today I just wanted to say some thank you's to some very special people. First, the doctors and nurses who helped me and healed me. Now I know why nearly everyone comes to America for a major operation. It's because we have the best doctors and nurses in the world. If you have to be sick, you're better off if you're sick right here in these United States of America. I want to thank everyoneheads of state, leaders, so many friends and citizens who have written and called and included me in their prayers. There were the balloons and flowers and what seemed like millions of cards. One of the nicest was the one I got from the nurses down the hall who sent me a card from the new babies in Pediatrics. It was signed with their little patients' tiny footprints. I also want to mention a sort of cautionary note. We all tend to ignore the signs that something may be wrong with us. But may I say, speaking from personal experience, it's important to go and get a checkup if you think something isn't right. So, if you're listening to this right now, and it reminds you of something that you've been putting out of your mind, well, pick up the phone, call your doctor or local hospital, and talk to someone. Just tell them Dr. Reagan sent you. I'd also like to indulge myself for a moment here. There's something I wanted to say, and I wanted to say it with Nancy at my side, as she is right now, as she always has been. First Ladies aren't elected, and they don't receive a salary. They've mostly been private persons forced to live public lives. And in my book, they've all been heroes. Abigail Adams helped invent America. Dolly Madison helped protect it. Eleanor Roosevelt was F.D.R.'s eyes and ears. And Nancy Reagan is my everything. When I look back on these days, Nancy, I'll remember your radiance and your strength, your support, and for taking part in the business in this nation. I say for myself, but also on behalf of the Nation, thank you, partner, thanks for everything. By the way, are you doing anything this evening? Just one more thing I wanted to say, and I want to address it to my supporters and opponents, Republicans and Democrats, friends and foes. So many of you have sent gracious notes and messages, and you've made me think of something that I've been pondering the past few days. There are a number of things that keep our country united: a shared reverence for certain ideals, for instance, and certain memories and traditions, but there's something more. We're a country of 230 million very different souls, and yet here we areliberals and conservatives, fundamentalists and agnostics, southerners and northerners, recent immigrants and Mayflower descendants-arguing often enough and disagreeing with each other, but at the same time held together, always held together by a tie that can't be seen, yet can't be broken. It is, I think, the great unknowing love of Americans for Americans, the great unknowing love that keeps us together and for which, this day, I'm more thankful than ever. In the next few minutes, I'll be leaving to go home to get on with the job you gave me. There are no words to express my appreciation for the great honor you've bestowed on me. Until next week, thank youall of you-and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Some of the recent economic reports might be seen as spectacular were they not becoming so routine. The Consumer Price Index increased by only two-tenths of 1 percent in June, following an identical twotenths of 1 percent increase in May. The United States economic expansion is 31 months old. Employment stands near its highest level in history, and yet inflation is below 4 percent. Not since the 1960's have prices been so well contained for so long a period of economic growth. Most important, the outlook on this summer day for the balance of 1985 and beyond is very good for continued low inflation, renewed economic strength, and rising employment. Productivity growth is strengthening and interest rates have dropped significantly, invigorating housing markets and permitting businesses to better finance investments and machines, technologies, and products for the future. Add to this the increase in business orders, which provides incentives to rebuild inventories, and the pickup of other economics abroad, and we see all the parts falling in place for a new surge of robust expansion. One of the most hopeful signs for our future is being seen in our black communities. We'll have to wait for the Census Bureau to release the latest poverty figures in August to confirm the new trend, but the evidence of progress seems clear. A record number of blackssome 10.6 millionnow have jobs. Since November 1982 the black unemployment rate has fallen by 61/2 percentage points, and nearly one of every five new jobs generated went to a black man, woman, or teenager. Blacks have gained an average of 45,000 new jobs every month for the past 31 monthstwice the job gain rate of whites. Those gains were created by the engines of enterprise, not the horse and buggy system of bureaucratic make-work that broke down long ago. They were created by people getting ahead and breaking free, not because of what society does for them, but what they do for themselvesby people who know complete emancipation must be a spiritual struggle for brotherhood, a political struggle for participation at the ballot box, and an economic struggle for an opportunity society that creates jobs, not welfare; wealth, not poverty; and freedom, not dependency. We're reaching out to every American who yearns to board the freedom train that can take them to the destination of their dreams. But that train can't keep moving if government keeps blocking the track. We can't rest until everyone who wants to work can find a real job. No American seeking opportunity through an expanding economy can break free if government erodes their take-home pay with new taxes. Minorities and women can't break free if government destroys their earning power with protectionist measures that raise prices and eventually cripple the job market and our economy as well. And workers searching for jobs and advancement can't break free if government upsets the marketplace with harebrained ideas like federally mandated comparable worth, a proposal that would take salary decisions out the hands of employers and employees and give government the power to determine what a fair salary is. On another front, we'll keep speaking out, pushing as hard as we can, to give all Americans new opportunity to build a better life. That means passage of our tax reform to lower rates, nearly double the personal exemption, raise the standard deduction, and increase the earned-income tax credit. Tax reform is a must, because it would turn private energies away from efforts to save another dollar in taxes toward efforts to earn another dollar. This is how hope and opportunity are created. We'll keep pushing for passage of enterprise zones as long as areas that could be new sites for economic development remain destitute landmarks of despair. Such neglect is an outrage, and those blocking this legislation should never have the nerve to say a word about compassion again. Finally, to bring teenage unemployment rates down further, we've asked the Congress for a 3-year test of the youth employment opportunity wage. It enjoys bipartisan supportleading black mayors, 114 historically black colleges, the Fraternal Order of Police, even the National Alliance of Postal Employees. It's time Congress passed this proposal that could create some 400,000 new jobs for our youth. We've got to believe in them if they're to believe in us. At long last, all Americans are beginning to move forward together. From now on, it's got to be full speed ahead. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The month of August marks an important milestone for our country. Four years ago we took our first giant step toward putting this economy back in your hands when I signed our bill to lower and permanently index the tax rates of every working American. After being held back so long, a ringing declaration went forth that the dream of economic freedom was alive and well in America's soul. And you responded, bursting ahead with energy and enthusiasm, ignoring all those who were downright panic-struck that Washington could no longer reach deeper and deeper into the pocketbooks of your families. While they were busy predicting disaster, you began transforming our economy from top to bottom. From the nightmare of interest rates that, at 21 1/2 percent, had pierced the highest level since the Civil War, double-digit inflation raging like an uncontrollable virus, long gas lines, and the worst tax burden in peacetime history, we awoke to a new dawn of progressswift, sure, and steady progress that has continued for 4 years and is continuing today. Inflation, which has been as high as 13 percent, has not just eased but has sharply declined to less than 4 percent. The prime interest rate, while still too high, has dropped to its lowest level in almost 7 years. And decontrolling oil prices did not send the price of gas at the pump skyrocketing as some said it would; prices are lower today than 4 years ago. Progress regained has renewed our confidence. We can see and feel that confidence in the vigorous increases in consumer purchases, in greater incentives to save, and in the advances to record levels in the stock market. All of us are building a new America, a dynamic America that's created nearly 8 million jobs in the last 32 months and almost 500,000 last month alone; an enterprising America with a record 635,000 new business incorporations last year, the auto, housing, and construction industries rejuvenated, and spectacular breakthroughs in new technologies; and, most important, a successful America with one of the most impressive economic expansions in postwar history. Even as we speak, new strength in factory orders, jobs, leading economic indicators, and equity markets show the U.S. economy flexing its muscles for another big push toward greater prosperity. But this building of a new America is not complete. We still face a great challenge in reducing the deficit, but those who insist that spending cannot be cut any further and that we must increase your taxes to reduce the deficit are flat-out wrong. Last February 1 submitted a budget calling for large savings, including elimination of 17 costly and wasteful programs. The budget resolution finally agreed to by the Congress this week represents a good-faith beginning to tackle the deficit the right wayby reducing what government can spend, rather than simply taking more of what you earn so government can keep spending levels high. But when Congress votes on the various spending bills this fall, we will review each one line by line to be sure they don't contain excessive spending levels or might jeopardize our national security. Let's all recognize that spending has not been cut to the bone and that a tax increase would only reduce our incentives to work, save, and invest and ultimately weaken our economy and make deficits far worse. Sometimes it's difficult to remember that you didn't send us to Washington to feed the alligators; you sent us to drain the swamp. We didn't come to raise your taxes, but to lower them. And what better moment than this anniversary of our first tax cut than to sound the trumpet once more. This nation is poised to forge ahead, poised to give every citizen the noble chance to break free and taste the thrill of high adventure. Our next great advance must come from a total overhaul of our tax code. And make no mistake, that day is coming. As Congressman Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, indicated this week, "Reports of the death of tax reform are greatly exaggerated." We can pass an historic tax reform to sweep away unjust loopholes favoring the powerful few. We can reduce the top rate of tax to 15 or 25 percent for all but a tiny fraction. We can reach for excellence and make America the most powerful success story for growth and human progress the world has ever known. And, yes, with your help, we can continue the success we began 4 years ago. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a few days, we'll be commemorating V-J Day, the 40th anniversary of the end of the war in the Pacific, which brought to a close the most destructive and widespread conflagration in the history of mankind. Over 3 million American airmen, soldiers, sailors, and marines served in the Pacific and Asian theaters between 1941-1945. They endured some of the most savage combat of the war, from the frozen Aleutian Islands in the north to the jungles of Guadalcanal and the volcanic sands of Iwo Jima. Our fighting forces came back from the defeat at Pearl Harbor and slugged their way across the Pacific, island by island. General Douglas MacArthur wrote of the American fighting man in the Pacific: "He plods and groans, sweats and toils. He growls and curses. And at the end, he dies, unknown, uncomplaining, with faith in his heart, and on his lips, a prayer for victory." Well, the victory was won, and our freedom and way of life were preserved because of the courage and honor of those who put their lives on the line four decades ago. The Americans who went through this ordeal of storm and sacrifice, just as their counterparts who battled our enemies in Europe, deserve a special place in the hearts of all those who love liberty. Vice President Bush might be a little embarrassed if he knew I was going to say this, but he's one of those Americans I'm talking about. As a young fighter pilot in the Pacific, his plane was shot down on a military mission. He came perilously close to losing his life. If you know any veterans of the Second World War, you might take the time on August 14th to thank them. There are so many heroes among us, and I'm sure they'd like to know how much we appreciate them. The veterans of the Pacific war should take special pride that today the Pacific rim is blessed with stability and bustling with enterprise and commerce. The hard-fought battles of the Pacific laid the foundation for what is becoming one of the most vibrant regions of the world. The devastation and rubble of the war have given way to great centers of human progress, futuristic metropolises with vast industrial complexes, modernistic transportation systems, and impressive institutions of culture and learning. Nowhere is this more evident than in Japan, now a close and reliable friend and one of our most important allies. In these last 40 years, the Japanese have transformed bombed-out ruins into a great industrial nation. With few natural resources of their own, they now produce over 10 percent of all the world's goods and services. They've accomplished this economic miracle with hard work, free enterprise, and low tax rates. The Japanese are today in so many ways our partners in peace and enterprise. Our economic ties are a great boon to both our peoples. Our good will and cooperation will be maintained by a mutually beneficial trading relationship based on free trade and open markets on both sides of the Pacific. The great strides forward being made in the Pacific rim bode well for the United States. We are, after all, a Pacific rim country. Already our trade with Pacific and East Asian countries is greater than with any other region of the world. We can look forward to the future with anticipation of a better tomorrow. The people of our country will be in the forefront of the economic renaissance of the Pacific. Liberty not only spawns progress, but it is the genesis of true peace as well. As free peoples, it is unthinkable that the Japanese and Americans will ever again go to war. Where there are differences, as there are in the relations of any two great nations, they can be settled in the spirit of good will. Those brave Americans who fought in the Pacific four decades ago were fighting for a better world. They believed in America and often they gave the last full measure of devotion. One such man was Marine Lieutenant David Tucker Brown from Alexandria, Virginia. While in the Pacific, he wrote home: "I am more than ever convinced that this is Thomas Jefferson's war, the war of the common man against tyranny and pride. It is really a war for democracy and not for power or materialism." Well, Lieutenant Brown was later killed in action in Okinawa, one of so many brave and courageous young Americans who made the supreme sacrifice. I think if those brave men were with us today they'd be proud of what has been accomplished. At war's end, with victory in hand, we looked forward, not back. We lived up to our ideals, the ideals of heroes like Lieutenant David Tucker Brown. And we worked with our former enemies to build a new and better world, a world of freedom and opportunity. That's the America we're all so proud of. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: August is a happy time for most of us, a time of vacations and State fairs. A number of America's farmers will be showing their livestock and produce at those fairs, and this month they'll have more to show than ever. It's been another bumper-crop year on the farms, and that's good news for America's consumers, but a mixed blessing for our farmers. Big crops mean weaker prices, and under current conditions, that means more financial strain for some of those who grow the food that feeds our country. It's no secret that American agriculture is facing hard times. And it's particularly painful to know that those affected are among our most productive and hard-working citizens. American farmers are the backbone of our country. Their crops and stock and related industries account for nearly one-fifth of our gross' national product and almost one-fifth of our exports. Now, not all farmers are in trouble; many are not. And it's important to note that those whose crops are the beneficiaries of governmental programs are worse off than those who operate without such assistance. Current farm problems arise from a host of reasons. There were the shocks of the seventies: grain embargoes, double-digit inflation, and record interest rates at 21 percent. Some farmers borrowed large sums of money based on inflated land values, and when we brought inflation down, those farmers were left with declining land values to cover their loans. But a major contributor to the problem is the Federal program designed to help farmers. For years now, Federal farm programs have distorted the market and sent confusing signals to farmers. Interventionist commodity programs have encouraged farmers to produce more than the market will bear while attempting to prop up prices. Today we find ourselves with farmers who grow more than they can sell, and the result is low commodity prices and a depressed rural economyand this, in spite of how much we've spent. In 1979, for instance, the Federal Government was purchasing less than 1 percent of all dairy products at a cost of $250 million. Just 4 years later, in 1983, it was purchasing 12 percent of those products at a cost to the taxpayer of well over $21/2 billion a year. And it's not just the dairy program. From 1981 through this year, we will have spent just under $59 billion on farm price supports. That's nearly 3 1/2 times what we spent from 1976 to 1980. Our administration has spent more on the farm program than any other administration in history. If spending more money on agriculture would solve the problem, we already would have solved it by now. We've got to create a future for the farmer that's every bit as bright as the future is for the rest of our economy. A big part of that is keeping inflation and interest rates down. We've made progress on these fronts, as you know, and it's helped farmers control their own costs. Farm production costs were rising fast in the 1970's, but now they've been stable since 1981. The other half of the job is to free ourselves from the quagmire created by Federal farm programs. I support long-term policies that will enable the American farmer to enter the 21st century stronger than ever before. The world market holds the potential for increasing opportunities for our products, but we must have a farm policy that maintains our competitiveness. Through our trade policies, we must ensure that farmers have full and fair access to all foreign markets. That is one of the Federal Government's greatest responsibilities; another is to provide stability in programs. Much of the farm problem stems from the past practice of lurching from one emergency program to another, coming up with so-called solutions that never solve anything. The answer to our farm problems cannot be found in sticking with discredited programs and increasing government controls. The answer can only be found in our ability to help our entire agriculture industry stand on its own feet again. You know, this country is nothing without the farmer, and those who work the land have the right to know that there's a future in farming. Their children have the right to know that they'll still be able to work the family farm generations from now and make a decent living. The law governing our farm program expires September 30th. I'm eager to sign historic legislation that will put American agriculture on a sound course for the future. In writing farm legislation, I expect the Congress to stay within its own budget goals. I need your help to send Congress an unmistakable message that change in our farm policy is not only desired but essential. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As summer draws to a close our thoughts naturally turn to the coming school year. Few things could be more central to the life and health of our nation than the education of our children. Our schools hold the future of America in their hands. They will decide whether that future is enlightened, free, and informed, or shrouded in the darkness of ignorance. From the beginning, our administration has made excellence in education a top priority, and from the beginning, we've recognized that excellence is formed in the classroom by teachers, administrators, and parents working closely together to give their children the very best education possible, not by bureaucrats in the far-off city of Washington. When it comes to education, it's the classroom, not Washington, where the real action is. That's why, starting in the next couple of weeks, Bill Bennett, our Secretary of Education, will be traveling to eight elementary, middle, and senior high schools across the country and teaching a class in each one. Secretary Bennett will not only be honoring the teaching profession and paying tribute to the art of teaching, he should be having something of a learning experience for himself as well. Now, I remember from my own school days the tough time we used to give substitute teachers, and I warned Bill he might be getting in over his head. But he said he's had a lot of practice dealing with unruly groups like the Congress. Still, I'm going to ask all of you kids who may be in his class-as a favor to mego easy on him. A recent Gallup Poll found that an overwhelming majority of Americans want their schools to do two things above all else: to teach students how to speak and write correctly and, just as important, to teach them a standard of right and wrong. They want their schools to help their children develop, as Thomas Jefferson said, "both an honest heart and a knowing head." Unfortunately, parents today all too often find themselves confronted with so-called experts and a large battery of misguided opinion that says their children's education should be what they call value-neutral. Well, to me, and I bet most Americans, a value-neutral education is a contradiction in terms. The American people have always known in their bones how intimately knowledge and values are intertwined. We don't expect our children to rediscover calculus on their own, but some would give them no guidance when it comes to the even more fundamental discoveries of civilization: our ethics, morality, and values. If we give our children no guidance here, if we give them only a value-neutral education, we're robbing them of their most precious inheritance-the wisdom of generations that is contained in our moral heritage. Our Founding Fathers weren't neutral when it came to values. "We hold these truths to be self-evident," they wrote in the Declaration of Independence, "that all men are created equal," and that they're "endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights." Our forefathers found their inspiration, justification, and vision in the Judeo-Christian tradition that emphasizes the value of life and the worth of the individual. It most certainly was never their intention to bar God from our public life. And, as I have said before, the good Lord who has given our country so much should never have been expelled from our nation's classrooms. Around the country, the educational picture is improving. Violence in schools is dropping, and test scores are up. Most important, community pride and involvement in our schools is way up. My message to parents is simply this: Your school system exists to serve you; keep getting involved. The more parents get involved with their children's schooling and education, the better it will be and the brighter the future of our country will be. Finally, I'd like to address a few words to all you students. If you're anything like me when I was in school, you're looking forward to the beginning of the school year with mixed feelings. You've probably got those "end-of-summer blues" now, but soon you'll be wrapped up in the excitement of your classes. But you, too, can help make America's educational system second to none. If your teachers don't give you homework, ask them why not. If discipline is lax, see how you can help to make it better. It's your right to learn, your right to the opportunities that a good education can bring. Remember, you're not only studying for yourself but for your family, your community, your country, and your God. So, go for it, kids. Give it your best effort. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Wednesday I notified Congress of my decision not to impose either quotas or tariffs on foreign shoe imports into this country. I'd like to talk with you about that decision because the case of shoe imports illustrates why so-called protectionism is almost always self-destructive, doing more harm than good even to those it's supposed to be helping. Advocates of protectionism often ignore its huge hidden costs that far outweigh any temporary benefits. The Council of Economic Advisers estimates that the quotas on shoe imports that I turned down would have cost the American consumer nearly $3 billion, and there are other costs. Quotas would have entitled our trading partners to another $2 billion in compensation, or they would have retaliated, slapping quotas or tariffs on the products we sell to them. That would mean an immediate loss of American jobs and a dangerous step down the road to a trade war. Also, if our trading partners can't sell their products here, they can't afford to buy our exports and that means more lost jobs for Americans. Protectionism almost always ends up making the protected industry weaker and less able to compete against foreign imports. Between 1977 and 1981, U.S. footwear manufacturers received protection from foreign imports, but at the end of that time they were more vulnerable to foreign competition than before. Instead of protectionism, we should call it destructionism. It destroys jobs, weakens our industries, harms exports, costs billions of dollars to consumers, and damages our overall economy. Of course, free trade also means fair trade. We will move vigorously against unfair trading practices, using every legal recourse available to give American manufacturers a fair shake at home and open markets abroad. The balance of trade has become a very emotional issue; some claim our trade deficit has cost us millions of jobs. Congress is awash in bills calling for trade sanctions and retaliation. But look at the facts: In 1980 we had a trade surplus, and about 99 million Americans had jobs. Today we have a trade deficit, and almost 107 million Americans are working. Despite a growing trade deficit, we've gained over 71/2 million new jobs since 1980. Our free, open, and growing economy has put more Americans to work in 1985 than ever before in our history. We've created more jobs in the last 3 years than Europe and Japan combined. The surest way to destroy those jobs and throw Americans out of work is to start a trade war. And one of the first victims of a protectionist trade war will be America's farmers, who have it tough enough already. A news story the other day said protectionist fervor on the Hill is stronger than it has been since the 1930's. Well now, some of us remember the 1930's, when the most destructive trade bill in history, the Smoot-Hawley tariff act, helped plunge this nation and the world into a decade of depression and despair. From now on, if the ghost of Smoot-Hawley rears its ugly head in Congress, if Congress crafts a depression-making bill, I'll fight it. And whether it's tax, trade, or farm legislation that comes across my desk, my primary consideration will be whether it is in the long-run economic interest of the United States. And any tax hike or spending bill or protectionist legislation that doesn't meet the test of whether it advances America's prosperity must and will be opposed. America is getting stronger, not weaker. Our 23-percent tax rate cuts have given us 2 1/2 years of economic expansion, a dramatic increase in after-tax personal income, and the most dramatic drop in poverty in 10 years. We must not retreat into the failed policies of the past, whether they be protectionism or higher taxes. Let's go forward by cutting income tax rates again and building opportunity. On Monday we'll be recognizing America's working men and women. We've created over 7 million jobs in the last 4 1/2 years. On this Labor Day, let's challenge ourselves to create 10 million more in the next four. To do that, we're going to have to be courageous, hopeful, hard working, and proud, which pretty well sums up what it means to be an American. There is one quality I left out: faith in the loving God who will continue to guide us on the optimistic course we've set. Enjoy your Labor Day holiday. Until next week then, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In my last radio address, I discussed my decision not to impose quotas or tariffs on footwear imports. Protectionism, I said, costs consumers billions of dollars, damages the overall economy, and destroys jobs. Instead of closing down markets at home and throwing Americans out of work, we should be stepping up our efforts to open markets abroad and create American jobs by increasing exports. I instructed the United States Trade Representative to begin investigations of unfair trading practices on the part of our trading partners. We have the authority to counter unfair trading practices by initiating investigations, entering negotiations, and taking active countermeasures if those negotiations are unsuccessful. Therefore, I'm directing the U.S. Trade Representative to start proceedings in three cases of unfair trade: one, against a Korean law that prohibits fair competition of U.S. life and fire insurance firms in the Korean market in direct contradiction of treaty obligations; two, against a Brazilian law that has restricted U.S. exports of computers and related products and squeezed out some American computer firms operating there; and three, against restrictive practices dealing with tobacco products in Japan that unfairly block U.S. entry into that market. I've also ordered acceleration of ongoing efforts to open up Japanese markets in leather and leather footwear and to challenge the European Community's subsidies on canned fruit. On these two cases we're setting a deadline of December 1, 1985. I have directed that a list be prepared of countermeasures which will be taken if these disputes are not resolved by then. We hope that through these negotiations we will be able to convince our trading partners to stop their unfair trading practices and open those markets that are now closed to American exports. We will take countermeasures only as a last resort, but our trading partners should not doubt our determination to see international trade conducted fairly with the same rules applicable to all. I'm committed to and will continue to fight for fair trade. American exporters and American workers deserve a fair shake abroad, and we intend to see they get it. Our objective will always be to make world trading partnerships freer and fairer for all. So, while we will use our powers as a lever to open closed doors abroad, we will continue to resist protectionist measures that would only raise prices, lock out trade, and destroy the jobs and prosperity trade brings to all. There are no winners in a trade war, only losers. As we take these important steps to make our trading system freer and fairer, let's also look at the subject of trade in its broader context. Some point to our trade deficit with alarm, but our share of world exports has not declined. In 1980 our share of world exports was just below 12 percent; in 1984 it was just over 12 percent. We have a trade deficit not because exports are declining but because imports are rising at a much more rapid pace. Why? Because our economy is, in a sense, out of balance with many of our trading partners. The strong growth of the U.S. economy has simply not been matched by many countries abroad. Our tax cuts ignited a noninflationary economic expansion that has put over 8 million Americans to work in the last 33 months alone. In fact, numbers released yesterday showed a dramatic drop in overall unemployment to 6.9 percent, the lowest in 5 years. Contrast that to Europe where a mix of protectionist policies and continued high tax rates have produced economic anemia and where they've actually lost jobs overall in the last 10 years. And many developing countries with massive debts, high taxes, and low or negative growth find it difficult to afford U.S. exports; some look to our strong dollar as the culprit. And, yes, a strong dollar does make it harder for American firms to sell their products abroad, but the strong dollar is a reflection of America's economic strength. Low taxes and low inflation make America an attractive place to invest. We can either balance the trade deficit up by encouraging our trading partners to adopt the high-growth policies of tax cuts and open markets, or we can balance down by adopting the no growth policies of tax hikes and protectionism. The choice is clear. Let's take the high road to prosperity by fighting for an open, free, and fair trading system with our economic partners and by encouraging them to adopt low tax, high employment growth policies. And let's keep our engines of growth humming here at home, too, by passing a new tax plan for America, a fair share tax plan for all. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans: Recent economic reports confirm our economy is moving smartly ahead with solid expansion in the job market and inflation being held down. Our future looks good, but one group is still having difficulty. Far too many farmers are seeing hard times. Prices for corn, wheat, and soybeans have been weak and getting weaker. Demand for exports has dropped as production here and in other countries has steadily increased, and foreign suppliers have filled markets that once were ours. Our great success in bringing down inflation has helped farmers by ending double-digit price increases for fuel, fertilizer, and other supplies, but there's been a down side. Many farmers took out loans in the late seventies when inflation was soaring, assuming the value of the land they were pledging as collateral would keep on rising. Unfortunately, the opposite happened. When inflation plunged, land values plunged, too. And when inflation stayed down, defying the experts' predictions, those loans farmers were carrying became more and more difficult to finance. How can we not open our hearts to these people in distress who mean so much and give so much to America? We know that, while farmers account for only 3 percent of the work force, farming and related industries generate $660 billion a year or almost 18 percent of our gross national product. We know that these industries are responsible for 21 million workers, nearly 20 percent of the work force. We can be thankful that agriculture, one of the few industries with a strong, positive trade balance, provides employment for 630,000 nonfarm workers through its yearly exports. These facts and figures are convincing in their own right. Yet facts and figures don't tell the whole story. They don't convey the strength and nobility of values, the deep faith in God, and love of freedom and independence, the many years of hard work and caring for friends and neighbors that began on the farm and made America the greatest Nation on Earth. Farming is hard work, maybe the hardest. The strength of our farmers has always been the strength of their dreams for the futuredreams that a son or a daughter working the fields, tending the herds, 'might decide to stay on that farm and be able to make a go of it. There is no price tag on traditions like these, only the stark realization that to lose our farmers would be to lose the best part of ourselves, the heart and soul of America. Well, we cannot let that happen. We cannot permit the dreams of our farmers to die. We must have compassion for these men, women, and their families, so important to all of us. I'm asking Congress to join me in planting fresh seeds of hope for America's farmers. We might begin by seeing and avoiding the one threat that could make today's problems far worse. Some 300 protectionist bills await action in Congress. To enact them would be to invite certain retaliation against our farm exports, heightening the risk of a farm catastrophe which would send shock waves throughout our economy. Believe me, protectionism is farmers' enemy number one, and that enemy is stalking our gate. Let us work aggressively for freer and fairer markets. But more than that, let us have the courage to urge that more countries start doing what America has begun doing so well. Go for growth by adopting low-tax, free-market policies that will increase jobs, raise their people's standard of living, thereby strengthening demand for our products. Nations which have stagnated their economies with high taxes are weak importers, and this problem must be recognized. We do not seek an America that is closed to the world; we seek a world that is open to America. We do not dream of protecting America from others' success; we seek to include everyone in the success of the American dream. I'm asking Congress to unite with me for intelligent policies that provide farmers needed help, without doing harm to the budget limitations adopted by Congress, and greater freedom for them to grow and sell their crops in the marketplaces of the world. By working in this spirit, we can avoid budget-busting legislation which repeats the mistakes of the past, legislation I would not hesitate to veto. We must meet our responsibility to America's farmers and pass a farm bill that provides hope, not measured doses of despair. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: During the next 10 days at the White House, matters of central importance to our country's role in the world and to the peace and prosperity of all nations will be dealt with. This week I will meet President Mubarak of Egypt; next week with King Hussein of Jordan. In both meetings, one item will dominate the agendapeace between Israel and her neighbors. King Hussein has made clear his wish for a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict which has plagued the Middle East and the world for so long. He foresees a peace negotiated directly between Israel and a Jordanian-Palestinian delegation and is committed to begin those negotiations, if possible, by the end of the year. We're doing all we can to support the efforts to make this vision a reality. Egypt, President Mubarak's nation, has already proven that peace between the Israelis and Arabs is possible and now faces other problemsa troubled economy at home and danger on some of its borders. We're doing all we can to help Egypt meet these challenges because we know that a secure and prosperous Egypt is the cornerstone of peace and stability in that region. King Hussein, President Mubarak, and I will also discuss the war between Iran and Iraq. America and other nations have worked for years now to bring this war to an endso far, to no avail. Yet if we cannot end the fighting, we and close friends like Egypt and Jordan can keep it from spreading. In particular, we're determined to preserve the free shipment of oil through the Persian Gulf. Next Friday I'll meet the new Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. He and I will discuss human rights, regional conflicts such as the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , bilateral issues such as trade between our two countries, and security matters including our efforts to achieve genuine, verifiable reductions in nuclear arms. As Mr. Shevardnadze and I meet, it will be 6 months since Mr. Gorbachev became the new Soviet leader, and this will give our meeting special significance. As you know, the Soviet Union frequently has been bent upon expansion. Indeed, since the 1970's the Soviet Union has been engaged in a military buildup which far exceeds any rational definition of its defensive needs. These policies have inflicted bitter costs upon the Soviet peoples. Every week Russian soldiers are dying in Afghanistan, while their standard of living has suffered accordingly. Mr. Gorbachev can change this; he can set in train a policy of arms reductions and lasting peace. By shifting resources from armaments to people, he can enable his nation to enjoy far more economic growth. Given the nature of the Soviet system and its ideology, we must not raise false hopes, but during my meeting with Mr. Shevardnadze, I will express the good will of the United States and search for signs of a Soviet willingness to engage in genuine give and take. Mr. Shevardnadze and I will both have in mind the approaching meeting between myself and Mr. Gorbachev. Again, with regard to this meeting, we must not raise false hopes. The differences between communism and democracy are profound. There will inevitably be competition between us, but it's the central responsibility of the leaders of the United States and the U.S.S.R. to ensure that this competition is peaceful. In these meetings, we will make clear to the Soviet leaders that we are determined to protect Western interests, but willing at the same time to do our part to improve American-Soviet relations. If there's comparable seriousness and flexibility on the Soviet part, cooperation between our two great nations will be enhanced. Already many in our administration are toiling on preparations. On Friday I will tell Mr. Shevardnadze how genuinely we wish this meeting to bear fruit. Turning from foreign affairs to international trade, in recent weeks there has been sentiment growing in the Congress for some form of protectionismlegislation which would make it difficult or impossible for us to exchange whole categories of goods with our trading partners. On Monday I'll address our absolute commitment to trade that is both free and fair. For now, let me simply state that the answer to our trade problems isn't anti-trade legislation; it's more economic growth worldwide. My friends, the dangers to world peace and prosperity are ever present. But I believe that with your support, during the next 10 days, we'll be able to promote peace and advance the cause of free and fair international trade. Now, in closing, I want to talk about the tragedy of the Mexican earthquake, which has brought a great outpouring of sympathy and offers of assistance from the American people. We greatly admire the bravery and resolve of the Mexican people to dedicate all their resources to overcome this calamitous event. A tragedy like this reminds us that the desire to be a good neighbor is basic to the American character and to our foreign policy. We have already provided some technical assistance, as requested by the Mexican Government, and stand ready to help in every way in the days and months ahead. To aid in that effort, Nancy will go to Mexico within the next few days to express the support of the American people for our courageous friends in Mexico and to explore how we can lend a hand in this ordeal. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: During the past week we've been working hard to advance the Middle East peace process and to try to improve U.S.-Soviet relations. I met with our good friend President Mubarak of Egypt, and I'll be holding discussions this coming week with another longtime friend of the United States, King Hussein of Jordan. I hope to talk to you more about the Middle East next week. But today let me speak about our efforts to build a more constructive and stable long-term relationship with the Soviet Union. Both Secretary Shultz and I met with the new Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze this past week. These meetings covered a broad global agenda, including the four major areas of the U.S.Soviet dialog: human rights, regional and bilateral issues, and security and arms control matters. They enabled us to discuss at the most senior levels the key issues facing our two nations. I told the Foreign Minister I'm hopeful about my upcoming meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev, and I put forward some new ideas as well as my plans and expectations for that meeting. The Soviet Foreign Minister indicated that Mr. Gorbachev also is looking forward to these discussions. Furthermore, we agreed to set up a series of senior level discussions between our experts in preparation for the Geneva meeting. Let's be clear, however, that success will not come from one meeting. It must come from a genuine, long-term effort by the leadership of the Soviet Union as well as ourselves. The differences between us are fundamental in political systems, values, and ideology as well as in the way we conduct our relations with other countries. The United States must and will be forthright and firm in explaining and defending our interests and those of our allies. I went over with Mr. Shevardnadze Soviet actions in various parts of the world which we feel undermine the prospects for a stable peace, and I discussed with him the need for the Soviet Union to work with us seriously to reduce offensive nuclear arms. These weapons exist today, and there's no reason why real reductions cannot begin promptly. Finally, I emphasized the need for a more productive Soviet response to our efforts in Geneva to begin a U.S.-Soviet dialog now on how to fashion a more stable future for all humanity if the research in strategic defense technologies, which both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. are conducting, bears fruit. Mr. Shevardnadze indicated that the Soviet negotiators will present a counterproposal in Geneva to the initiatives we've taken there. We welcome this. It is important that the counterproposal address our concerns about reductions and stability just as we've sought to address Soviet concerns. And we hope it'll be free of preconditions and other obstacles to progress. We're ready for tough but fair negotiating. You, the people, can distinguish diplomatic progress from mere propaganda designed to influence public opinion in the democracies. All too often in the past, political and public opinion, and sometimes government policy as well, have taken on extreme views of the U.S.-Soviet relationship. We have witnessed sometimes a near euphoria over a supposed coming together, at other times a feeling that the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. may somehow be at the brink of conflict. By holding to the firm and steady course we set out on 5 years ago, we've shown that there is no longer any reason for such abrupt swings in assessing this relationship. Our differences are indeed profound, and it is inevitable that our two countries will have opposing views on many key issues. But we've intensified our bilateral dialog and taken measures, such as the recent upgrading of the crisis hotline, to ensure fast and reliable communications between our leaders at all times. Above all, I emphasized to the Foreign Minister, and will do so with Mr. Gorbachev, that the overriding responsibility of the leaders of our two countries is to work for peaceful relations between us. So, what we're engaged in is a long-term process to solve problems where they're solvable, bridge differences where they can be bridged, and recognize those areas where there are no realistic solutions, and, where they're lacking, manage our differences in a way that protects Western freedoms and preserves the peace. The United States stands ready to accomplish this. Much more must be done, but the process is underway, and we will take further steps to show our readiness to do our part. With equal determination by the Soviets, progress can be made. We will judge the results as Soviet actions unfold in each of the four key areas of our relations. And I will be reporting to you further as preparations for the November meeting proceed. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to talk to you about two matters: a dramatic new legislative proposal and recent events in the Middle East. First, the new proposal: Yesterday I gave my enthusiastic support to what might well become historic legislationthe Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985introduced by Senator Phil Gramm of Texas and Senator Warren Rudman of New Hampshire. This legislation will impose the discipline our government has so long lacked to control its insatiable appetite to spend. Under this proposal the Federal Government, by law, would be required to lock in a deficit reduction path leading to a balanced budget. This would be achieved without raising taxes, without jeopardizing our defenses, and without breaking our commitments on Social Security. The proposal would establish a maximum allowable deficit ceiling, beginning with the current level of $180 billion, and then mandate that this deficit be reduced-by equal amounts each yearuntil we reach a balanced budget in calendar year 1990. Moreover, I personally believe in, and I've asked Congress to put in place, a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution to take effect in 1991. By doing this, we could make sure that our progress would not be lost. The importance of the proposal to eliminate deficit spending can hardly be overstated. For decades Federal spending has been growing virtually out of control. It took 173 years, from the establishment of our government in 1789 to the Kennedy administration in 1962, for the annual budget of the United States to reach $100 billion. It took only the next 9 years for the budget to double to 200 billion, and in the 14 years since, it has more than quadrupled to over 900 billion. Not surprisingly, as the Government has been spending like a drunken sailor, it's taken our country deeper and deeper into the red. Indeed, today the Federal deficit amounts to more than $211 billion. Now, this deficit has notand I repeat, notdeveloped because of our tax cut. On the contrary, government revenues have actually been rising rapidly since we cut tax rates42 percent since we started, but spending has increased by 60 percent. But overall, since our tax cut, government has still spent more than it has taken in. It sort of reminds me of that old definition of a babyan enormous appetite at one end and no sense of responsibility at the other. Well, with the passage of the bill I endorsed yesterday, the Government of the United States can show that, at long last, we are growing up, and we're gaining that sense of responsibility. The Senate is debating this proposal today, and I strongly urge them to approve it before the debt limit authority expires on Monday. Let me add here a personal caveat: While spending control is vital to the economic well-being of this nation, the highest priority of any American Government is preservation of the national security. The maintenance of a national defense second to none, indeed, the only legitimate justification for running a large annual deficitas we ran every year of World War IIis preservation of the Nation, itself. When the spending cuts are made by this administration, as they must be made, the security of this country, its allies, and its friends will not be put at risk. The Congress has agreed, and next year I will propose those amounts already accepted as necessary for keeping the peace. Permit me now to turn to recent events in the Middle East. In shock and dismay, we've watched murderous attacks on Israeli civilians, and in response, an Israeli military raid on a PLO headquarters in a country that is an old friend of the United States. Now we hear that one of our American hostages in Lebanon may have been murdered, as was a Soviet citizen earlier this week. This return to violence is abhorrent. All the more so because it's so useless. Armed struggle has solved nothing. There is no military option for resolving the difficult conflicts of the Middle East. The only way to bring a lasting end to this dreadful cycle of violence is to deal with the circumstances that underlie it through negotiations-direct, peaceful negotiations among the parties concerned. Permit me to close by mentioning the gifted statesman whose country was affected by this week's violent events, President Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia. Farseeing and wise, President Bourguiba has been a true friend to America for decades. There is a particularly bitter irony about events of the past week because President Bourguiba was one of the very first to urge a negotiated settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Our hearts go out to him and to the innocent Tunisians swept up in this violence. In this horror, our hope lies in statesmen like President Bourguiba and King Hussein, President Mubarak and Prime Minister Peres. They are men of vision and peace; they deserve our support and our prayers. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
Last week our State and Defense Departments released the most comprehensive report yet on the strategic defense programs of the Soviet Union. You can obtain a copy ofit's called "Soviet Strategic Defense Programs"by writing the Department of Defense in Washington, DC. This report shows that the Soviets not only continue to build up their offensive nuclear forces at an unprecedented rate, they're also spending almost as much on strategic defense. For years, we have deterred aggression through the threat of nuclear retaliation, but we virtually ignored our defensive needs. While the Soviets were expanding their own involvement in strategic defense, we were virtually standing still. At this point, their buildup of offensive weapons combined with their very extensive strategic defense programs is threatening the security of the West. We must respond in three ways: first, by modernizing our own strategic forces, the forces on which deterrence depends; second, by doing our part to get an agreement with the Soviets in Geneva for equitable and verifiable reductions in offensive nuclear forces; and third, by investigating the possibilities of nonnuclear defenses to help protect the United States and our allies from attack. It's our hope that this research and testing under our Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI, may, in fact, point the way to advanced defenses that could protect millions of people. We've got to restore military balance between the United States and the Soviet Union, and we need your support for both a strong defense and a strong deterrent against aggression. In a democracy, no policy can be sustained without such public support, but the Soviet Union is not a democracy. We see this in its internal structure, in its treatment of the individual, and in the way it conducts its foreign affairs. The Soviets refuse to admit they have any strategic defense program at all. This is not only deception, its dangerous deception, for without a full picture of what is going on, the people of the world cannot know what they need to know to keep the peace. Let me give you just a few details about Soviet strategic defense programs. First of all, unlike our own, Soviet activities go well beyond research. The Soviet Union today has the world's only operational antiballistic missile system. The Soviet Union also has the world's only operational antisatellite system and the world's most extensive strategic air defense network. Beyond that, the Soviets are engaged in a number of activities that raise questions about their commitment to the antiballistic missile treaty of 1972, including the construction of a new radar in central Siberia, which is an out-and-out violation of the treaty. But that's not all. The Soviets have for a long time been doing advanced research on their version of SDI. They don't talk about that; all they say about SDI is that the United States shouldn't have it, but as many as 10,000 Soviet scientists and engineers are believed to be working on research related to SDI. They're doing so well, our experts say they may be able to put an advanced technology defensive system in space by the end of the century. When you look at what the Soviets are doing in both strategic offense and defense, you realize that our SDI research program is crucial to maintain the military balance and protect the liberty and freedom of the West. America's research and testing is being conducted within the terms of the ARM treaty. I want to make it clear that we welcome the day when the Soviet Union can shoot down any incoming missile, so long as the United States can shoot down any incoming missile, too. Our SDI research offers the hope that we can enhance U.S. and allied security through greater reliance on defenses which threaten no one, rather than on offensive nuclear weapons which could kill millions. What I'm speaking of is a balance of safety, as opposed to a balance of terror. This is not only morally preferable, but it may result in getting rid of nuclear weapons altogether. It would be irresponsible and dangerous on our part to deny this promise to the world. And so, we're dealing with the real issue of peace, with the real issue of how to free the entire world from the nuclear threat. And this is why we want the Soviets to join us now in agreeing to equitable and verifiable reductions, and I mean significant reductions in offensive nuclear arms. And it's why we're seeking to discuss with the Soviet Union, even now in Geneva, our hopes for the creation of a world with more defense and less and less offense. The sooner the Soviet Union comes clean about its own strategic defense programs and joins with us in a real dialog to reduce the risk of war, the better it will be for the world. Write the Defense Department and ask for the "Soviet Strategic Defense Programs." Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Next week Nancy and I will be traveling to New York City. We'll be joining some 80 world leaders and other distinguished guests from around the globe to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the United Nations General Assembly. I'll be meeting with many of these leaders, and I want to share with you my thoughts and hopes on this special occasion. I can remember vividly the high hopes and expectations we all shared when the United Nations was created in 1945. The nations of the world, exhausted and devastated after the most destructive war in history, came together to lay the foundation for a better world, one free of war. President Harry Truman declared on behalf of all Americans our solemn dedication to fight for the principles of the U.N. Charter: peace, freedom, and an end to tyranny, hunger, and human suffering. Americans have never stopped striving to uphold and defend those principles. The American people have held high the torch of freedom for all those fighting for liberty around the world. Our farmers have provided food for millions of needy people across the globe. We helped rebuild the nations ravaged by the Second World War. We and our allies have worked to prevent a third. We've come to the aid of our friends threatened by aggression in Korea, Vietnam, Pakistan, El Salvador, and Grenada. And we've worked to bring about peace in the Middle East and offered far-reaching proposals to reduce nuclear arsenals. For 40 years, we have honorably carried out our responsibilities to the U.N. Charter, and we have not hesitated to stand firm against those who've sought to undermine peace and freedom for their own sinister ends. In the coming weeks, we will have a new opportunity to pursue the charter's lofty goals. On Monday, Nancy will be meeting with 31 other first ladies at the U.N. to continue the cooperative efforts she began last spring to focus world attention on the devastating problem of drug abuse. This is a problem which affects the well-being of virtually every country and can only be solved through the kind of cooperative efforts the United Nations was intended to foster. In 1 month, I will be meeting with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. I intend to discuss with him, openly and frankly, the obstacles to peace and to suggest how, together, we can remove some of them. If he's receptive, our discussions can go a long way toward building a safer world and realizing the ideals of the U.N. Charter. The United Nations' founders understood that true peace must be based on more than just reducing the means of waging war. It must address the sources of tension that provoke men to take up arms. True peace is based on self-determination, respect for individual rights, open and honest communications, and that is the kind of peace we want. We want countries to stop trying to expand their power and control through armed intervention and subversion. We have the opportunityin fact, we have the mandateto reduce the danger of nuclear war by drastic reduction of nuclear arsenals. And that's why we've proposed radical, verifiable, and balanced reductions of offensive nuclear weapons and why we're pursuing research and testing to identify defensive technologies which threaten no one. We must defend human rights everywhere, since countries which respect human rights are unlikely to unleash war or to impose their will on others. And that's why we insist that the Helsinki accords and other international commitments be observed. We must establish better communication between our societies, since misunderstandings make the world more dangerous. These will be the subjects of my discussion with General Secretary Gorbachev. I hope that our discussions will contribute to building true peace, to guaranteeing a safe path into the 21st century. But whether this comes to pass will depend on the Soviet willingness to address the real sources of tension in the world and, in particular, their conduct in the world, their treatment of their own citizens, and their continuing and longstanding arms buildup. In preparing for my meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev, I'll be seeking the advice and counsel of our allies and friends, some of whom will be in New York with me. With their support and yours, we can set a course now for a safer future. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As you know, Nancy and I were in New York City this week to help mark the 40th anniversary of the United Nations. I remember well that summer in 1945 when, out of the great devastation of World War II, the United Nations was born. Well, this week also marks another important anniversary. Just 2 years ago, the United States came to the rescue of democracy and of hundreds of American students in Grenada. All of us can be proud of the swift response of our country, together with Grenada's democratic Caribbean neighbors to the SOS from Grenada's Governor General Paul Scoon. He appealed for our help to restore order in his country, threatened by the machinery of dictatorship. The scores of Communist-bloc advisers that we found on the island, not to mention the supplies of Soviet arms and files of secret treaties with Communist states, showed the world what the people of Grenada had learned firsthand how Communist revolutionaries can hijack an entire country. Today Grenada is free, and we're helping rebuild their economy. Their democratically elected leader, Herbert Blaize, told me there's more to be done, but "thanks to America, we will make it work." Well, the deep desire to be free moves people everywhere to resist oppression, from Afghanistan to Cambodia, Angola, Ethiopia, and Nicaragua. Make no mistake, the attempt to impose repressive dictatorships subordinated to Soviet objectives is a fundamental source of tension in many regions of the world. This is why our support for struggling resistance forces shall not cease, why in my address to the U.N. I proposed a three-part initiative to resolve regional conflicts: First, negotiations among warring parties to end the violence and to bring about the democratic reforms and respect for human rights essential for national reconciliation. Second, once progress is made by those directly involved, the United States and the Soviet Union should negotiate the elimination of all foreign military presence and flow of outside arms. Third, when progress is made through negotiations to end the violence, to bring about democratic reforms and to eliminate the foreign military presence, the United States will ask other nations to join in supporting economic recovery and reconstruction. When I meet with General Secretary Gorbachev in Geneva, I intend to make our regional peace initiative a key part of our discussions. How can we discuss the goal of a more peaceful and civilized world without discussing those places where peace is being violated and innocent people are being killed? Does the Soviet Union share our conviction that true peace must rest on the right of all people to choose their destiny, to grow and develop free from coercion and fear? Well, we shall see in Geneva. Secretary of State Shultz will be taking up these and other issues on his forthcoming trip to Moscow. We Americans are practical. We seek practical solutions to problems that seemed intractable, from achieving the universal immunization of children to finding new ways to protect civilization against missile attack. Talking about a safer world is not good enough; we must make it happen. I had detailed discussions with some of our allied leaders this past week. Our conversations convinced me more than ever that we are on the right track. We're negotiating hard with the Soviet Union on reducing offensive nuclear weapons. We have proposals on the table for deep reductions and are examining their counterproposal. We're also determined to move ahead on research and testing of our Strategic Defense Initiative to see whether an effective nonnuclear defense against a nuclear attack is feasible. Finally, we're combating the deadly menace of international terror. Our action weeks ago to apprehend the Palestinian hijackers was not our last. We're working with all peace-loving nations to create a united front against terrorism, and we're fighting the international narcotics traffickers poisoning our youth. The First Lady's drug conference at the United Nations, which Nancy hosted this week, bringing together 31 first ladies from around the world, will raise global awareness and hopefully touch the conscience of the world. This has been an important week. We have held high our banner for personal freedom, human progress, and global peace. Now we must go forward to do what is not only practical and beneficial but what is right and just. Until next week, thanks for listening.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday in Geneva American negotiators presented to their Soviet counterparts new proposals designed to achieve real reductions in the nuclear arsenals of both the United States and the Soviet Union. My instructions to our negotiators also asked that this round of the negotiations be extended into this coming week so that our team can make a full presentation of our new proposals and so that the Soviets have the opportunity to ask questions about them. I am very pleased that the Soviet Union has agreed to this extension of the talks. I know you join me in hoping that this will be a productive week in Geneva. Our new proposals address all three areas of these negotiations: strategic nuclear arms, intermediate-range nuclear forces, and defense and space systems. They build upon the concrete reduction proposals American negotiators have had on the table since early in the talks, and they take into account expressed Soviet concerns. Our objective since the start of the administration in 1981 has been to achieve real progress in reducing not only nuclear arms but conventional forces and chemical weapons as well. We've been firm and consistent in our arms control approach. Just as important, we have placed great value on maintaining the strength and unity of our alliances and ensuring that the security interests of our allies are enhanced in these negotiations. And we've demonstrated flexibility in taking legitimate Soviet interests into account. I'm pleased to report to you that our strategy has been working. I believe we've laid the groundwork for productive negotiations in Geneva. The first sign of this was when Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze presented to me at our White House meeting in September a Soviet counteroffer to our own earlier proposals. The Soviet negotiators then presented this in detail in Geneva, and our negotiators and our experts here at home have had a chance to analyze it carefully. Based on this analysis, I decided upon the new U.S. proposals and instructed our negotiating team to present them in Geneva. Judged against our very careful criteria for reaching sound arms control agreements, we found that the Soviet counterproposal had some flaws and in some ways was one-sided. But as I made clear in my speech to the United Nations, the Soviet move also had certain positive seeds which we wish to nurture. Our new proposals build upon these positive elements. One of them is the Soviet call for 50-percent reduction in certain types of nuclear arms. For more than 3 years we've been proposing a reduction of about half in the strategic ballistic missiles of both sides. We therefore have accepted the 50-percent reduction proposed by the Soviets. At the same time, we're making it clear that we have a safer and more stable world. And if we're to have that, reductions must be applied to systems which are comparable, and especially to those which would give either side a destabilizing first-strike advantage. We not only want to bring nuclear arms way down to equal levels in a stable way, we also want to decrease our mutual reliance for security on these extremely destructive offensive arsenals. Thus, we're seeking to discuss at the same time with the Soviets in Geneva how together we can try to help make the world a safer place by relying more on defenses which threaten no one, rather than on these offensive arsenals. Each of us is pursuing research on such defenses, and we need to be talking to each other about it. I have written to both allied leaders and Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev about our new proposals. And I have informed Mr. Gorbachev how much I am looking forward to our meeting later this month in Geneva. He and I will have a broad agenda at our meeting, one that includes human rights, regional issues, and contacts between our peoples, as well as the Geneva and other arms control negotiations. If we hope to succeed in our efforts to create a safer world and to bring about a fresh start in the U.S.-Soviet relationship, progress will be needed in all of these areas. And this can only be accomplished if the Soviet leaders share our determination. We're encouraged because after a long wait, legitimate negotiations are underway. Now, we've had a proposal on the table in Geneva for quite a while. Now the Soviet Union has offered a counterproposal, and we, in turn, have a new proposal now reflecting some of the elements of both of the others. And this is what negotiation is all about. I can't give you any more details about our new arms control proposals because we have to let the negotiators work this out behind closed doors in Geneva. But I want to leave you with the four key objectives our American negotiators are seeking: deep cuts, no first-strike advantages, defensive researchbecause defense is much safer than offenseand no cheating. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We're expanding the format of our radio broadcast today. During the next 10 minutes, I'll be speaking to the citizens of the Soviet Union over the Voice of America about the upcoming Geneva summit. My words will be directed to them, but I want you to hear what I say. My speech is also being broadcast to over 50 nations by the Worldnet Television Network. So, good evening, this is Ronald Reagan, President of the United States, speaking to you from Washington about my upcoming meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev in Geneva and my hopes for a better relationship between our two governments. Your leaders can freely appear on American radio and television and be interviewed by our magazines and newspapers. So, I was grateful for my recent and rare opportunity to speak with representatives of the Soviet press. While I appreciate that, only parts of the interview were published in Izvestia, and much of what was left out I think is important. So, I wish to speak to you personally as a husband, father, and grandfather who shares your deepest hopesthat all of our children can live and prosper in a world of peace. I grew up in a small town in America's heartland where values of faith in God, freedom, family, friends, and concern for one's neighbors were shared by allvalues you also share. During my school years I worked during vacations, for a time on construction and then for several summers as a lifeguard at a river beach. After finishing my education I became a radio sports announcer, which led to acting in Hollywood where I was elected head of our actor's guild. I'm the only American President who was also president of a labor union. Back then I had no intention of engaging in national politics, but America's a great country filled with opportunities. In the years that followed, including my years as Governor of California and as President, I have not forgotten the values I learned as a boy nor have my fellow Americans. Now, I know that much has been written in your press about America's hostile intentions toward you. Well, I reject these distortions. Americans are a peace-loving people; we do not threaten your nation and never will. The American people are tolerant, slow to anger, but staunch in defense of their liberties and, like you, their country. More than once, our two countries have joined to oppose a common enemy. During our War of Independence, Russia provided assistance to the distant American colonists. A century and a half later, we joined together to defeat the common enemy of fascism; before that, we were allies in World War I. Even before we entered World War II, America was supplying massive quantities of food and equipment to those fighting the Nazis. We provided 14,795 aircraft to your forces, 7,056 tanks, more than half a million vehicles, and more than 6 million tons of food and other staples. Americans will never forget the valor, the pain, and, at last, the joy of victory that our peoples shared. I remember President Roosevelt's praise for the Russian people's heroism. How can any of us alive then forget that terrible year of 1941 when the Nazis were repulsed at the gates of Moscow, the courage of Leningraders during the 900-day siege, the victory at Stalingrad, or our historic meeting on the Elbe in 1945? Americans fought for 4 years on all fronts. Many lie buried in northern Africa, Europe, Burma, China, the Pacific islands, and at the bottom of the sea. Some are buried on Soviet soilin the hero city of Murmansk, where they had brought precious supplies through the treacherous convoy route. Yet after that victory, Americans gave generously to help rebuild war-torn countries, even to former enemies, because we had made war on a vicious ideology, not on a people. And we demonstrated our desire for peace by rapidly demobilizing. At the end of 1945, we had an armed force of almost 12 million men; by 1948 we had reduced that number to less than 1 1/2 million. We were the only country with nuclear weapons. We proposed giving those weapons up altogether to an international authority so that no country would have such destructive power at its disposal. What a pity this idea was not accepted. Today we must both face the challenge of eliminating nuclear weapons. I have said many times and will say again to you: A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. I pray God that we can rid the world of these dangerous weapons, in part by finding a reliable defense against them. Our negotiators in Geneva are working hard to reach a breakthrough. I am pleased that the Soviet Union finally responded to our original proposals. We studied the response carefully and replied quickly. These are complicated negotiations and satisfactory results will take long, hard work. Let me be clear about our research and testing program on strategic defense technologies. Our goal is to make the world safer through development of nonnuclear security shields that would protect people by preventing weapons from reaching their targets and, hopefully, render ballistic missiles obsolete. Your own government has been conducting longstanding and extensive programs on its own defensive systems, including advanced research. The United States is just beginning a long process of investigating defenses. If and when our research proves that a defensive shield against nuclear missiles is practical, I believe our two nations, and those others that have nuclear weapons, should come together and agree on how, gradually, to eliminate offensive nuclear weapons, as we make our defensive system available to all. We ought to start talking about this process at the Geneva arms talks. We must live together in peace. America's whole history has been a search for peace and opportunity by pioneers seeking freedom, many from the old European order. We're proud of the Russians, the Ukrainians, the Jews, the Armenians, and many others who sailed by our Statue of Liberty and reached our shores. Diversity is one of our great strengths. This is partly why we're confusing to outsiders. Our government is elected by the people; it is not above the people or above the law. We believe the truth is found through debate and discussion. Truth does not burn in the fire or drown in the water. Our system is often uncomfortable for elected officials, because one of our proudest institutions is a free press. The press criticizes me, and sometimes it hurts, but that is their roleto raise difficult questions and keep officials accountable to the people. But no one should mistake our freedoms for weakness. We favor free and open dialog not just for Americans, but for all peoples. We believe in freedom of the individual. Freedom of worship, freedom of speech, freedom of the press are, as our Declaration of Independence says, unalienable rights of all men. Ten years ago the United States and the Soviet Union, along with 33 other countries, signed the Helsinki accords. We all pledged to respect human rights, permit our citizens freedom of speech and travel, and improve communication among the peoples of the signatory nations. America asks the world's leaders to abide by what they have committed themselves to do. As the world's two strongest nations, we owe it to the rest of humanity not only to keep our word but to help find peaceful settlements to local and regional conflicts in Afghanistan, Africa, Latin America, and elsewhere. We must also join forces against terrorism. There is no place in a civilized world for assassinations, terrorist bombings, and other mindless violence. I strongly urge you and your government to join us in combating terrorism and ensuring that no country will offer succor or comfort to terrorists. We have much to learn from each other. Americans have long been enriched by your cultural giants. The works of Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, Turgenev, Chekov, and Pasternak are taught in many American universities; just as American authors from James Fenimore Cooper, Mark Twain, and Jack London to Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner are popular in your country. I want expanded contacts between our two great societies, wherever there is mutual interest. I am particularly interested in increasing exchanges among our young people, for they are our future. We should open a dialog between our nations, so leaders of each country would have the same chance to communicate to the people of the other on television. If more of your citizens visited us, you would understand that our people want peace as fervently as you do. I hope my discussions with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva will be fruitful and will lead to future meetings. We seek peace not only for ourselves but for all those who inhabit this small planet. We share borders with three countriesMexico, Canada, and the Soviet Union. We pride ourselves on our friendly relations and open borders with our two North American neighbors. And I hope the day will come when that narrow chain of islands stretching from Alaska to the eastern shore of Siberia will symbolize the ties between our two great peoples, not the distance between us. Everything has a season. Let us hope as we near Christmas and the New Year that this will be the season for peace. Thank you for welcoming me into your homes. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As I speak to you today, I am flying across the ocean to Geneva, Switzerland, on a mission for peace. As you know, I'll be meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. Those meetings may occupy the news for the next few days, but right now I want to talk to you about something closer to homethe American Red Cross. Actually, the Red Cross was founded in Geneva over a hundred years ago to care for the victims of war. Then Clara Barton, who became known as the "Angel of the Battlefield" during our Civil War, brought the idea to the United States and expanded it to include disaster relief during peacetime. One way or another the Red Cross has touched most of our lives. Last year close to 1 1/2 million volunteers worked for the Red Cross, with many millions more giving blood and participating in their programs for young people. It was with the Red Cross, in fact, that I received training for one of my first jobsas a lifeguard. And today I'm proud to serve as this noble organization's honorary chairman. This year has been unprecedented in the history of Red Cross disaster relief efforts, and their resources have been stretched to the limit. In addition to helping our neighbors around the worldin famine-stricken Africa, after the devastating earthquake in Mexico City, and most recently with the eruption of a volcano in Colombiawell, Red Cross has had its work cut out for it here at home, too. A series of natural disasters has struck the United States since last July 1st. Several of them you probably know by name: Bob, Danny, Elena, Gloria, and Juan. But in addition to these hurricanes, there have been other disasters: fires, evacuations, the Puerto Rican mudslides, and the floods in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, which were extremely destructive and have added enormously to the burden of Red Cross relief efforts. Still, each time disaster struck, the Red Cross volunteers were there. I'm sure that for those people whom the storms made homeless a hot meal, a Red Cross blanket, a soft bed, and a warm smile helped get them through the nightmare and take that first step on the difficult road to rebuilding their lives. I guess the only good thing to come out of natural disasters like these are the stories of self-sacrifice and downright heroism, and so often those heroes turn out to be Red Cross volunteers. That was the case recently in West Virginia when some volunteers heard a dog barking inside a flooded house. By the time they got there, the water was already rising past the windows. Inside, a man was struggling to save his furniture from the water and had no idea the peril he was in. He was blind and may not have been evacuated if the Red Cross hadn't come to save both him and his dog. Then there was a family in West Virginia marooned in their home; the only way food and supplies could reach them was by a Red Cross boat. And there were the volunteers who dove into a rushing torrent to save a mother and her children just before they got swept away by the current. The Red Cross is always there for us; now we need to be there for them. You may be surprised to know that, as big as it is, the Red Cross receives no government funding; it is entirely dependent on private contributions for support. Just since the beginning of July, the Red Cross has spent a record $48 million responding to emergencies, and they are quite simply running out of funds. So, they are launching an emergency disaster relief campaign, and they've set a fund-raising goal of $20 million. It's now time for all of us to volunteer for the volunteers, to give to those who've given so much of themselves. In recent years we've witnessed a resurgence in the great American spirit of neighbor helping neighbor. Now more of you are volunteering your time and contributing money to charity than any time in our nation's past. We've seen Americans unite to help feed the hungry around the world, provide emergency assistance to disaster victims in foreign lands, and we've seen one of the largest private sector initiatives in history raise funds to restore our great Statue of Liberty. Well, today I ask your help so that others may be helped. Please contact the Red Cross chapter nearest you and ask what you can do to give them a hand. Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This has been a busy and eventful week for Nancy and me. Now that the summit in Geneva is behind us, we need to look ahead and ask: Where do we go from here? As I told Congress, we've made a fresh start in U.S.-Soviet relations. Every issue was on the table, and our 15 hours of discussions were tough and lively throughout. I got a better perspective from listening to General Secretary Gorbachev, and I think he went home with a lot to think about, too. I plan to meet Mr. Gorbachev again next year in Washington, but between now and then, we have much work to do. Opportunities to address important problems of Soviet-American relations should not be squandered. We must always be realistic about our deep and abiding differences, but we should be working for progress wherever possible. On arms control, the Soviets, after several years of resisting talks, have now agreed that each side should cut nuclear arms by 50 percent in appropriate categories. And in our joint statement, we called for early progress on this, directing the emphasis of the talks toward what has been the chief U.S. goal all along: deep, equitable, fully verifiable reductions in offensive weapons. If there's a real interest on the Soviet side, there's a chance the talks can begin to make headway. Mr. Gorbachev and I discussed our work on SDI, America's Strategic Defense Initiative. I told him that we're investigating nonnuclear defensive systems designed to destroy offensive missiles and protect people. Although reluctant to acknowledge it, the Soviets have been carrying forward a research program, far more extensive than ours, on their own version of SDI. I think it's fair to point out that the Soviets main aim at Geneva was to force us to drop SDI. I think I can also say that after Geneva Mr. Gorbachev understands we have no intention of doing sofar from it. We want to make strategic defense a strong protector of the peace. A research and testing program that may one day provide a peace shield to protect against nuclear attack is a deeply hopeful vision, and we should all be cooperating to bring that vision of peace alive for the entire world. Regional conflicts were prominent in our discussions, and we'll be watching very closely for any change in Soviet activities in the Third World. Another resounding vote of the U.N. General Assembly has just called for Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. Next month a new round of talks on this question takes place, also under United Nation auspices. If these talks are to succeed, the Soviets must provide a timetable for getting out and recognize that the freedom fighters will not be conquered. On bilateral and human rights questions, there were some small, encouraging steps before the summit, and in the agreements we reached there, to promote people-to-people contacts. In both areas, we're hoping greater steps will follow. As I also told the Congress, human rights is a true peace issue. If there is one conclusion to draw from our fireside summit, it's that American policies are working. In a real sense, preparations for the summit started 5 years ago when, with the help of Congress, we began strengthening our economy, restoring our national will, and rebuilding our defenses and alliances. America is strong again, and American strength has caught the Soviets attention. They recognize that the United States is no longer just reacting to world events; we are in the forefront of a powerful, historic tide for freedom and opportunity, for progress and peace. There's never been a greater need for courage and steadiness than now. Our strategic modernization program is an incentive for the Soviets to negotiate in earnest. But if Congress fails to support the vital defense efforts needed, then the Soviets will conclude that America's patience and will are paper thin, and the world will become more dangerous again. Courage and steadiness are all important for freedom fighters, too. I made it clear in Geneva that America embraces all those who resist tyranny and struggle for freedom. Breaking faith with freedom fighters would signal that aggression carries no risk, and this we will not allow. My fellow Americans, we are entering a season of hope. If we remain resolute for freedom and peace, if we keep faith with God, then our American family, 238 million strong, will be even more thankful for next year. Again it's wonderful to be home; so until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You've heard me say that nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. Well, today I wish to speak to you about a struggle which we do wage every day, a struggle we must win if we're to protect our freedom and our way of life. At stake are government secrets essential to our national security. Protecting these secrets against espionage and any hostile intelligence threat to the United States is a heavy responsibility. Operations to protect America's secrets are usually done quietly with little publicity. Well, lately they've been making big news. Some of you may be wondering if the large number of spy arrests in recent weeks means that we're looking harder or whether there are more spies to find. Well, I think the answer to both questions is yes. The threat is certainly increasing. The number of hostile intelligence officers in the United States and working against us around the world has grown sharply in recent years. Espionage, spying, is not a game. It costs our country secrets and millions of dollars in stolen technology. It can also cost lives and threaten our national survival. This administration had given high priority to improving our ability to detect and counter any hostile intelligence threat. We've added resources, people, and top-level attention to this task. We will not hesitate to root out and prosecute the spies of any nation. We'll let the chips fall where they may. And we've had impressive results. From 1975 to 1980, the United States apprehended a total of 13 spies. From 1981 through this year, we've apprehended 34. Here, let me add a word of appreciation in particular to the men and women of the FBI who have been working so diligently on this vital and sometimes thankless task. In the past, we've had some difficulty in readily admitting the intensity of this threat. Today, however, we approach the intelligence threat with a new degree of realism. We recognize that the KGB and others seeking to exploit the openness of our society are not 10 feet tall; neither, however, are they midgets. We're up against aggressive people who take their job seriously. There's no reason to sugar-coat reality. The free world is today confronted with some of the most sophisticated, best orchestrated efforts of theft and espionage in modern history. Today the Soviet intelligence services and secret police, the KGB and the GRU, and their surrogate services among the Soviet-bloc countriesCzechoslovakia, Poland, East Germany, Bulgaria, Cuba, and othersare hard at work. Their activities include classical espionage and what they call active measures. They are employing all the means we associate with spies, including electronic espionage against sensitive communications and other sophisticated techniques, to steal our secrets and technology. As events of recent days have made clear, many nations spy on the United States. The totality of this threat underscores just how important it is that we protect ourselves. What better time than this Thanksgiving weekend to remember and give thanks that we live in the freest land God has placed on this Earth. Yet even with our freedom, we must have the ability to protect certain vital secrets. So much depends on this: our diplomatic efforts to advance liberty and preserve peace, our own ability to see and hear what is going on in the world, and the readiness of our military forces and their effectiveness in carrying out their mission anywhere in the world. While our security is tied to protecting certain secrets, there is no need to fight repression by becoming repressive ourselves. Understanding the problem is the first step. The arrests we are seeing now should alert us to the danger we face. Even skeptics should recognize how necessary it is to maintain our top-quality counterintelligence efforts. At the same time, we can learn through each espionage case how to prevent these spies and turncoats from hurting us. In 1981 we began a comprehensive review of counterintelligence, security, and countermeasures. While much has been done, culminating in additional arrests, there is more we can and must do. We are currently seeking a broad range of reforms and improvements, including reducing the size of the hostile intelligence threat within our borders, better monitoring of exchange programs, improving government communications and personnel procedures, better analysis, expanding counterintelligence capabilities abroad, and ensuring the security of U.S. Embassies and bases throughout the world. We are working closely with the Congress in addressing many of these needs. I am asking for your understanding and support as we move ahead together to win this struggle and keep America free, secure, and at peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Before I get to my main topic today, I'd like to say a word about tax reform. Next week the House will decide whether the Congress will continue working on this important issue. While the proposals before the House are far from perfect, they do represent an essential step toward a tax code that is fairer, simpler, and encourages greater growth. I hope the House will vote yes next week and allow the Senate to consider debate and to improve this important measure. Now, permit me to talk about the trouble faced by some of the most important Americans among us: our nation's farmers and those who provide them with goods and services. Here's a letter I received from Debbie Wilson, a farm wife in Bennington, Oklahoma: "Dear Mr. President, we've seen a neighbor lose his farm and we've seen neighbors throw up their hands and quit because they couldn't make enough money to cover their farm expenses. We have felt the devastation those losses inflicted on the children, as well as the parents, because farming is a family endeavor." Debbie speaks for thousands of farmers from Maine to California. The reason our farmers are facing such hard times are complicated, but three main reasons stand out. First, a dramatic drop in land values as the inflation of the seventies was cut dramatically. Suddenly farmers who used their land as collateral found it much harder to obtain the loans they needed to purchase goods like chemicals, livestock, and tractors. The second major problem involved a fall in the demand for farm exports. The last administration contributed to this by imposing grain embargoes, a failed policy that our administration will never repeat. Later, many countries that had been purchasing large quantities of American farm goods began to purchase less, in large part because their economies had weakened. The third cause involved a sharp drop in the prices of many commodities as inflation slowed. Indeed, in the last year alone, prices that farmers receive for grains have fallen nearly 15 percent. All these problems mean hard times. I'm reminded of the troubles I saw during the Depression, growing up in Illinois, the heart of the Corn Belt, and living later in Iowa. The worst of it then was the hopelessness. Well, I'm determined not to let that terrible hopelessness spread through our farm communities today. Our farm communities have, as I said, been hurt by grain embargoes and failed policies of other administrations, by past inflation and the difficulty of adjusting to our success in bringing that inflation under control. Well, since government had much to do with causing these problems, government must do its part to help our farm communities get back on their feet. Government should do so, of course, in a manner consistent with its obligation to cut deficit spending. But lend a hand government must. To bolster farm credit, we proposed and the Senate, under the able leadership of Senators Dole and Helms, has passed a bill to strengthen the farm credit system and put it back on a sound basis. The House Agriculture Committee, under the leadership of Congressmen de la Garza, Madigan, Jones, and Coleman, has reported out a similar bill. I hope to sign an acceptable measure soon. To expand farm exports, Secretaries Block and Baker have been working to open markets and promote stronger economic growth in Europe and the Third World. And Secretary Baker is continually working with his foreign counterparts to ensure that the value of the dollar reflects economic conditions here and abroad. The dollar's decline during the past few months will brighten prospects for agriculture exports. The Congress is also putting together a comprehensive farm bill to guide our agricultural policy for years to come. As they work, the House and Senate must understand that more Federal dollars alone are not the answer. Indeed, during our administration farm price and income supports have more than quadrupled. What's needed is policy reform, including a long-term plan to get government out of farming and establish a more market-oriented farm policy. I call upon the Congress to send me a bill I can sign, one that provides America's farmers with hope. Perhaps most significant, our administration is continuing the policies that have already done so much to foster economic growth: the encouragement of sound monetary growth, the limiting of government, and the preventing of tax hikes. In the past 3 years, we've enabled America to put 8.8 million more people to work. And in recent months, the news for farmers has been hopeful as interest rates have dropped; indeed, the prime rate has dropped a full point since last spring. And inflation has remained low, helping to hold down the prices farmers must pay for equipment and supplies. Times are still hard, but I'm convinced that a more prosperous future for our farms is beginning to take shape at last. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I have two subjects to speak about today. First, taxes. I think you know how strongly I want to improve our unfair and complicated tax code. A problem that's grown so monstrous over the years isn't easy to correct. But we're on the edge of a breakthrough that can bring personal income tax rates down to the lowest level in over 50 years. This past week the House began final consideration of crucial reform legislation, but because of a parliamentary impasse, the House was unable to vote. Unless it's overturned, the result can only be a defeat for all Americans, who know taxes are too high and the system is hopelessly unfair. Today I'd like to make a personal request of the House of Representatives. You have the opportunity to provide the relief millions of Americans demand. If, together, Republicans and Democrats would agree to a format for considering this vote, I believe there will be sufficient bipartisan support for tax reform to pass. This is one time politics must be put aside on both sides of the aisle. There are ways to permit this much needed reform to go forward. There are ample excuses for not going forward; there will be no justification if it does not. Now, I must address recent disturbing events in a country close to our borders-the Communist dictatorship in Nicaragua. Nicaragua today is an imprisoned nation. It is a nation condemned to unrelenting cruelty by a clique of very cruel menby a dictator in designer glasses and his comrades, drunk with power and all its brutal applications. They stripped the Nicaraguan people of their rights by a state decree last October 15th, yet that decree only made official, and by their reckoning permissible, the theft of liberty that took place years ago. No institution more deeply embodies or glorifies or seeks to perfect the moral and spiritual goodness of man than the church in all of its denominations. Yet in Nicaragua, the church is the enemy. Protestant ministers and lay people have been arrested, interrogated, and tormented at secret police headquarters; some forced to stand naked in very cold rooms for long periods. A tiny population of Jews was bullied and driven out. Cardinal Obando y Bravo, a great hero of truth and courage, is prevented from speaking freely to his flock. The state police have expelled foreign priests and drafted seminarians, who are virtual prisoners in the Sandinistas' armed forces. And the Catholic Church's newspaper has been seized and Radio Catolica censored, sometimes shut down entirely. The same dictators who insulted Pope John Paul II also stopped Radio Catolica from broadcasting a letter from the Pope and this beatitude: "Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness sake, for theirs is the kingdom of Heaven." The truth is, these men are nothing but thugs, a gang of hard-core Communists to whom the word of God is a declaration of liberation that must be stamped out. Their denial of rights, their trampling of human dignity, their wrecking of an economy with suffocating socialist controlsall hurt and deeply offend us. But there's a cause for deeper concern: the specter of Nicaragua transformed into an international aggressor nation, a base for subversion and terror. Some 3,000 Cuban military personnel now lead and advise the Nicaraguan forces down to the smallest combat units. The Cubans fly the Soviet assault helicopters that gun down Nicaraguan freedom fighters. Over 7,000 Cubans, Soviets, East Germans, Bulgarians, Libyans, PLO, and other bloc and terror groups are turning Managua into a breeding ground for subversion. A delegation of Nicaraguans is now in Iran. Nicaragua's border violations against Honduras and Costa Rica continue. And Nicaragua's connection with the recent terrorist attack against Colombia's Supreme Court is now clear. What are we to do about such aggressions? What are we to do about Cuba's willful disregard of the 1962 Kennedy-Khrushchev understanding of which President Kennedy said, "... if Cuba is not used for the export of aggressive Communist purposes, there will be peace in the Caribbean."? Well, the answer is: more than we're doing now. If Nicaragua can get material support from Communist states and terrorist regimes and prop up a hated Communist dictatorship, should not the forces fighting for liberation, now numbering over 20,000, be entitled to more effective help in their struggle for freedom? Yes, and to reinforce this message, I sent my new national security adviser, John Poindexter, this week to visit the Central American democracies and make clear our commitment to a democratic outcome in Nicaragua. Those who struggle for freedom look to America. If we fail them in their hour of need, we fail ourselves as the last, best hope of liberty. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week the Congress adjourned for the holidays, and today I'd like you to join me in considering the main legislative achievements of 1985. There were many, including the passage of a vital farm bill, but I'd like to draw your attention to three of truly historic importance. None is of greater significance than the passage 4 days ago in the House of a tax reform bill, a bill which calls for the most sweeping overhaul of the income tax system in more than 40 years. The House bill is broadly based upon the proposal first put forward by our administration. It includes sharp cuts in both personal and corporate income tax rates, a large increase in the standard deduction, and an enlargement of the personal exemption. To help the needy, the bill would remove some 6 million low-income workers from the income tax rolls altogether. It's clear that in working on this bill, the House took to heart what I said in my speeches and you said in your thousands of letters and telegrams: It's time to promote economic growth and give the family a break. Historic as it is, the House bill, unfortunately, contains serious flaws; these the Senate must deal with when the Congress returns to Washington early in 1986. I know you join me in looking to the Senate to perform its work quickly and to make absolutely certain that the final bill is unequivocally profamily, projobs, and profuture. The passage of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings amendment, a measure to bring Federal spending under control once and for all, represented a second historic achievement. This legislation mandates steady decreases in the Federal budget deficit every year for 5 years, with the result that in 1991 the Federal Government will have a balanced budget at last. All my political life I've urged the Government to stop spending more than it takes in. So, it was with great pleasure that I signed this measure into law just 9 days ago. It's my hope that history will record that day as the moment when the relentless expansion of the Government was finally brought to a halt. But although Gramm-Rudman-Hollings tells us that we must cut the deficit, it does not altogether tell us how to do so. And that means we still have our work cut out for us. Will we fund wasteful, pork barrel programs at the expense of our national defense? Will we kill off our prosperity with a tax increase? No matter how intense the political pressures become, the answer to both of these questions must and will remain an unmistakable no. Defense spending must depend not upon this or that guideline, but one consideration alone: the size of the threat with which our adversaries confront us. To sacrifice our defenses in order to balance the budget would be to abdicate the paramount duty of the Government to the people. As for a tax hike, the lesson is clear: When government raises taxes, incentives for achievement are undermined and economic growth is stifled. My friends, we simply cannot allow that to happen again. I want you to know that my veto pen is inked up and ready to go. I'm just waiting for the first tax hike that has the temerity to come across my desk. We intend to meet the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings requirements in the only proper wayby seeing to it that government fulfills its few and legitimate functions more efficiently at the same time that we eliminate government waste. The final legislative achievement I want to mention concerns foreign affairs. It involves the emergence in the Congress of a new mood, a new point of view. During this past year, the Congress repudiated isolationism and weakness and reasserted America's legitimate world role on behalf of human freedom. Indeed, in July, Congress voted aid to freedom fighters in Cambodia, Afghanistan, and Nicaragua and repealed a ban on aid to the freedom fighters in Angola. This effort marked the appearance of a sober-minded realism, a new willingness to see clearly and to confront the dread effects of Communist expansion upon innocent peoples like those of Afghanistan and Nicaragua. And it's especially significant that aid to freedom fighters was also approved by the Democrat-controlled House. I'm convinced that a new, bipartisan foreign policy consensus is emerging, one based upon realism and which unites Democrats and Republicans alike in support of a strong national defense and help for freedom fighters around the globe. As so many of us prepare to celebrate Christmas, we can take comfort in the knowledge that, although we must continue our efforts to improve it, the legislative process established by the Founding Fathers is still working. Yes, as 1985 draws to a close, we Americans can take stock of our nation with pride: inflation is down, jobs are up, our country is at peace, and the American spirit is proud and bright. From the Reagan family to your family, Merry Christmas. And until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to talk to you about a matter of vital importance to our country and the world: the struggle for a free Afghanistan. It's been 6 years since the Soviet Union invaded that nation, 6 years of utter hell for the Afghan people who still fight on in the name of the ideals upon which our own nation was founded: freedom and independence. To demoralize and defeat the Afghans, the Soviets have unleashed the full force of their modern weaponry. Poison gas has been razed down from the air upon Afghan settlements. Massive attack helicopters have been used against mere villages. Hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have been injured or killed, and countless tiny mines have been strewn across the countryside to maim and blind Afghan children. Today Soviet troops inside Afghanistan number nearly 120,000. And in the face of this brutal onslaught, the Afghan people still refuse to surrenderis surely a miracle. And in this holiday season of renewed faith in miracles, it is surely fitting for us to honor and pray for those brave men and women. These courageous people have shown the world that the Soviets can never achieve the outright subjugation of the Afghan mind and spirit that they seek. The Afghan people are too proud, too fiercely determined to fight on. The Soviets understand this. They know that, in a sense, the battle for Afghanistan has shifted from the mountains of Afghanistan itself to the wider field of world opinion. So it is that the Soviets are prolonging the war and blacking out news about the daily atrocities which they're committing. They're waiting for world attention to slip, for our outrage to wane. Then, they believe the support which the free world has been providing to the freedom fighters will dwindle. The Soviets at that point will have effectively cut off the freedom fighters' lifelines, and although the mujahidin may never surrender, the Soviets will have achieved indisputable control of the country. An entire nation will have been strangled. My friends, in the name of human freedom, we cannot, we must not, allow that to happen. From the first, the United States has insisted on a settlement of the Afghan conflict that ensures the complete withdrawal of all Soviet troops. We're doing all that we can to see that a settlement comes about. Indeed, in my discussions with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva, I made it clear that the presence of Soviet forces in Afghanistan represent an obstacle to the improvement of American-Soviet relations. As long as the Soviets insist upon a policy of aggression, they must face the fact that free men will oppose them. The Soviet Union has always presented itself as a champion of anticolonialism and national liberation; history presents a different picture. But if, at any time, the Soviets choose to withdraw from Afghanistan, we will place no barriers in their way. The sixth round of United Nations negotiations aimed at achieving a political settlement in Afghanistan has just come to an end with no significant change. If the Soviets want progress, they must simply put forward a timetable for the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan and for the restoration of the rights of the Afghan people. As I said, the United States will do everything in its power to make this the course which the Soviets choose. Indeed, we're prepared to serve as a guarantor of a comprehensive Afghan settlement so long as it includes the complete withdrawal of foreign forces within a fixed timetable; ensures genuine independence, not de facto Soviet control over the Afghan people and their government; and allows the millions of Afghan refugees to return to their homeland in safety. Only then can the process of national reconciliation and rebuilding Afghanistan begin and the killing of Russians and Afghans alike come to an end. My friends, I want to ask for your help to make sure that those who struggle in Afghanistan receive effective support from us. Indeed, such support is a compelling, moral responsibility of all free people. What takes place in that far-off land is of vital importance to our country and the world. Certainly the struggle in Afghanistan is of great strategic military importance. Yet the most important battle involves not guns, but the human spiritthe longing to be free and the duty to help the oppressed. If the free world were to turn its back on Afghanistan, then, in a sense, the free world would become less free and less humane. But when we support the Afghan people, we become caught up in and ennobled by their struggle for freedom. Isn't that what America is alwayswhat it has always stood for and what we should stand for in 1986 and beyond? Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you in the coming new year.\par
My fellow Americans: Permit me to start today by wishing you and your families a happy and prosperous 1986. As we begin this year, we can be grateful that America is at peace, that our economy is growing, and that throughout the land there's a renewed sense of confidence in America and our future. I'd like to speak to you today about two vital aspects of foreign policy: our relations with our neighbors, Mexico and Canada. Just yesterday I traveled to Mexicali, Mexico, to meet President De la Madrid. This was our fourth meeting since his election and my seventh with a Mexican President since my own election in 1980. Today relations between the United States and Mexico are good. There's no clearer proof than our cooperation in rescue efforts after an earthquake struck Mexico City last September. And my talks yesterday with President De la Madrid were marked by an air of friendship. We've made progress in a number of areas which concern our two nations directly, including the improvement of Mexican-American bridges and border crossings and the expansion of trade between our two nations. We paid particular attention to the fight against illegal drugs, both drug production and smuggling. In the past, our cooperation in this effort has helped stem the flow of narcotics into the United States. But in recent months, drug smuggling has been picking up. Well, President De la Madrid and I have agreed to redouble our efforts to bring this illegal trade, this trafficking and the warping and destruction of human life, to an end. We're of one mind about the need to eliminate drug crops, to provide heavy patrols on the border, and to step up the prosecution of those who deal in illegal narcotics. Both Mexican and American officials have given their lives in the battle against illegal drugs. For the sake of those brave men and every young person whose life is at stake, we must alland willcontinue the fight until victory is won. In the international field, President De la Madrid and I expressed our respective viewpoints, notably on the problems of Nicaragua and other countries in Central America. President De la Madrid stressed that the conflicts in Central America have, in many cases, arisen from social and economic injustices. Well, for my part, I agreed that the nations of Central America have for many years been beset by poverty. And I pointed out that the United States is currently providing some $1.2 billion a year to the region in economic aid. But I felt bound to add something else, something crucial: The answer to Central America's problems is political and economic freedom, not Soviet tanks and ruthless regimes like the Communist dictatorship in Nicaragua that wages war against its own people. And this is why the United States will continue to support those fighting for freedom and democracy in Nicaragua. Permit me to turn now to Canada, our neighbor to the north. Last March 1 traveled to Quebec City to meet Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. The Prime Minister and I agreed that relations between our two countries are excellent. Canada and the United States maintain the largest trade between any two nations on Earth. We cooperate in the defense of North America and are partners in the NATO alliance. We share a tradition of democracy and political stability and a firm commitment to economic growth. We're not only friends and neighbors; we're cousins. Since our March meeting, the Prime Minister and I have worked to improve our relations still further. Already, we've committed ourselves to joint efforts in defense, the environment, and space. With regard to trade, I've informed the Congress that I want to begin negotiations with Canada on an agreement of historic significance to both countries. Our goal is to promote free and open economic competition and to reduce those few barriers to our trade that still remain. When Prime Minister Mulroney visits Washington this March, I believe the mid-1980's will already have taken shape as the most productive period in the long history of Canadian-American friendship. During my 1980 campaign for office, I called for a North American accorda renewed spirit of friendship and cooperation between the United States, Mexico, and Canada, the three great nations which share this continent. I was delighted to see that spirit so much in evidence yesterday in Mexicali. And I'm confident that this spirit of friendship among our three countries will mark 1986 and the years beyond. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Just this week, we had some very good economic news. Jobs are up, and unemployment is downall the way down to 6.8 percent, the lowest rate in more than 51/2 years. So, I'd like to talk to you today about the new strength of the American economy and what we can do to keep our economy growing. You'll remember that when our administration took office in 1981, inflation was raging in the double digits. Today inflation is down to less than 4 percent. In 1981 interest rates were soaring. The prime rate reached more than 20 percent, and interest rates generally were at the highest level since the Civil War. Now interest rates have tumbled; the prime itself has dropped by more than half, and we expect long-term interest rates to drop still further. When we took office, strong economic growth seemed an impossible dream. Today we're enjoying one of the strongest economic expansions since the end of World War II. Business productivity in the third quarter of 1985 increased at a strong annual rate of 3.7 percent. Real business fixed investment, as a share of real gross national product, hit a record high in 1984, rose to a new high in 1985, and is reaching for yet another historic high. This investment means our economic engines are being recharged with new means of production-new high-tech equipment like computers, communications systems, and electronic gearand at a faster rate than ever before. Perhaps the best news concerns the creation of jobs. During 1985 alone, the number of payroll jobs increased by 3 million; and today almost 110 million Americans are employed, the largest proportion of the Nation's population in our history. Last weekend in the Washington Post, I noticed that there were almost 50 pages of help wanted ads. And since September 1982, according to the Conference Board, the nationwide help wanted index has almost doubleda sure sign of economic vitality. Unemployment, as I mentioned, is down to 6.8 percent. When you focus only on those who've been unemployed 27 weeks or longer, the number drops still lower. And, even here, in the case of the long-term unemployed, there is hope in the form of our Job Training Partnership Act. This act replaced old programs that were training people for jobs that didn't exist anywhere close by and spending as much to do it as it costs to send someone to a good college. Our job act combines Federal efforts with those of State and local industry to train people for jobs that are close at hand. It costs less and succeeds more often, much more often. The economy is in better shape today because we've worked hard to get the Federal Government out of your pockets and off your backs. We've cut taxes, limited government regulation, supported sound monetary growth, and taken commonsense steps like deregulating the price of oil. This last measure made oil prices tumble and brought OPEC, the oil cartel that used to push us around, to its knees. But now we must force the Government to go on facing up to its responsibilities, most notably to reform our entire system of taxation and to bring Federal deficit spending to an end. The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings amendment, which I signed into law in December, calls for us to deal with deficit spending head on. It mandates smaller and smaller Federal deficits until 1990, when the Federal Government will have a balanced budget at last. But while the amendment tells us that we must bring deficit spending to an end, it leaves crucial questions about just how to do so unanswered. Well, I will continue to say that as far as I'm concerned, a tax increase is out. I, furthermore, intend to insist upon the maintenance of a strong national defense as the first duty of government to the people. Instead, our administration will meet its Gramm-Rudman-Hollings obligations by submitting budgets which eliminate government inefficiency and curtail needless expenses like vast amounts for Amtrak and subsidies for those who don't need them. On tax reform, we want to make corporate rates lower and bring down individual rates for you, the American people, in order to provide the incentives that spur economic growth. The tax reform bill passed last year by the House has its weak points, but it succeeded in lowering both corporate rates and income tax rates for most individuals. Now the bill goes to the Senate. We'll have a chance to improve it, but, believe me, the special interests are going to be there, lobbying just as hard as they can. If we're to protect the interests of all the people, I'm going to need your support. My friends, I'm convinced that with your help we can succeed on both these issues, giving the people tax reform and the Government a sense of fiscal responsibility. Together, we'll build on the economic successes we've already achieved and lead America on into a new era of opportunity and growth. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
The first national holiday for Martin Luther King, Jr., will be celebrated this Monday, but Dr. King's birthday fell this past week on Wednesday. I spent a good part of that morning at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Elementary School in Washington, and believe me, that was the place to be. I've got a pen pal at the school, 8-year-old Rudy Hines, and he's kept me up on the doings at the school and what he and his friends are thinking about. So, I wasn't surprised that, in spite of their age, the children at the King school knew all about his life and why it had meaning for all of us. Martin Luther King believed, as I and so many Americans do, that our country will never be completely free until all Americans enjoy the full benefits of freedom. It is now over 17 years since his death, and enough time has gone by to get a sense of the progress made by minorities in America and by America in the area of equal justice since 1968. I think it's fair to say that we've come a long way in the pursuit of racial fairness in our country. We have a lot to be proud of, but nothing to be complacent about; we still have a way to go. We're committed to a society in which all men and women have equal opportunities to succeed, and so we oppose the use of quotas. We want a colorblind society, a society that, in the words of Dr. King, judges people "not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character." Vigorous enforcement of the civil rights laws continues. More employment discrimination cases were Filed by the Justice Department during our first administration than during the previous 4 years. And we have successfully prosecuted more criminal civil rights cases in more parts of the country. We've also continued strong support for the fair housing laws. I agree with the late Dr. King that our country won't be free until we're all free. But I take it a step further: Our nation won't really be prosperous until everyone in it enjoys a share of the fruits of prosperity. What progress have we made in this regard? Well, still not enough. Record high employment, lower tax rates, lower inflation, dropping interest rates, and continued economic growth have helped Americans-and that includes black Americans. The policies of the past 5 years have produced the biggest economic expansion since the 1960's. Because of these policies, about 400,000 black Americans moved up and out of poverty from 1983 to 1984. A record 10.7 million black Americans are holding jobs. In fact, blacks have gained an average of 40,000 new jobs a month for a total of 1.5 million since the recovery began. In addition, the median family income of black Americans, adjusted for inflation, rose almost 2 percent in 1984. Another measure of expanding opportunity is minority entrepreneurship; and there, too, the news is encouraging. The Commerce Department reports that the number of black-owned businesses increased 47 percent between 1977 and 1982. By the way, over the past 3 years, minority firms have enjoyed $15 billion in government business and at least another $15 billion with private sector companies. Now, none of this happened by accident. The economy is expanding because from the beginning we made it clear that one of the prime motivating intentions of this administration was to get the economy going again. And it was clear the way to do that was cut tax rates, stop penalizing initiative, and sit back and watch the fireworks. All of us have benefited. The poverty statistics show John Kennedy was right when he said, following his own tax cuts, a rising tide lifts all boats. So, we've done some boat lifting the past few years, but it's still not enough. We can do better. We can reform our tax system, make it fairer, and lower most people's tax rates. We can also get spending under control and keep government from demanding more and more of your money. For years now we've been asking for enterprise zones in depressed areas, areas that would get tax breaks to attract the businesses that create jobs. And in education, we propose the educational voucher system in which families that live in poor areas can use vouchers to send their children to any of a number of schools, whichever they think is doing better. No reason parents shouldn't be given more freedom of choice, and no reason schools shouldn't compete for students. The answer to the question "How are blacks doing in America?" is "Better than ever before, and still not good enough." There's work to be done. But if we continue to allow the economy to expand and continue to work for a more perfect society, the people of all colors will prosper. And isn't that what Dr. King's dream and the American dream are all about? Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In 3 days I'll be going up to the Capitol to fulfill my responsibility of reporting to the Congress on the State of the Union. So, I'm spending this weekend finishing up some last minute work on my speechdotting the i's and crossing the t's and taking time to look back and to reflect on the days and months ahead. A piece of history trivia for you: After Washington and Adams, Thomas Jefferson discontinued the practice of delivering an annual State of the Union Address. He began a long custom of delivering written messages. It wasn't until 1913 that President Woodrow Wilson returned to the House Chamber to deliver a speech. Wilson felt a President could do a better job reading his message than a clerk could. He said, "I'm very glad to have this opportunity to address the two Houses directly and to verify for myself that the President is a person, not a mere department of the government hailing Congress from some isolated island of jealous powerthat he is a human being trying to cooperate with other human beings in a common service." Cooperate in a common serviceI guess that pretty much says it all. This will be my fifth State of the Union Address. It's almost getting to be old hat. In each address I've been mindful of one unchanging fact: I may be a Republican President, and be mighty proud of it, but I need the help of Republicans and Democrats in the Congress if we're going to solve the serious problems confronting our nation. I think back to 1981to the terrible economy, the inflation and interest rates, the sense that, both home and abroad, everything had gone haywire and was slipping out of control. And I remember the first thing I did was to ask the Congress to pass an economic recovery programone that would not be my program, but our program. By "our" I meant not just those of us who serve here in Washington but we, the American people. And so it was. We came together as a nation. All of us cooperated to rescue a country in distress and bring America back. So, now we look ahead again with high hopes that we can build on our success and work in bipartisan spirit to make 1986 the year of opportunities for America. A year of opportunities to create a future of unlimited opportunity; a year to unite for full employment from Harlem to Hawaii so that every American who seeks work can find work; to build a floor of security beneath every family, but no ceiling of opportunity above any American's head; to act now so that our children can truly look forward to inheriting a land freed from runaway debt, prices, crime, and drugs; and, yes, freed from the terror of nuclear attack. We know the challenges we must meet. We must make sure that government no longer stands as a roadblock to a stronger and smarter economyan economy that becomes more sophisticated technologically in both our new and traditional industries, so we can compete successfully with our trading partners. We need to make sure that the weight of taxes and education, health and retirement costs, doesn't crush those who will lead America into the 21st century with their risk-taking and hard work. And we need to do all that's required of us to keep America secure. In this storm-tossed world of terrorists and totalitarians, America must always champion freedom, for freedom is the one tide that will lead us to the safe and open harbor of peace. So let us join hands, Republicans and Democrats, and go forward together vowing not to flinch from the difficult but wise decisions that await us: to get government spending under control; to make our system a model for greater simplicity, fairness, and growth; and to prepare America for a prosperous future in a world that is free and at peace. This year marks the 199th anniversary of Shays' Rebellion, sparked by, among other grievances, a high land tax that weighed down on working people. Shays, a farmer and a veteran of the Revolution, had fought for the independence and freedom of our country. Shays' protest was put down forcefully, but it helped lead to the adoption of the United States Constitution, a blueprint for freedom giving each of us the right to help direct the course of our government to fight against injustice, if you will, without having to lead an armed revolution. Our future can be as heroic and as exciting as we will it to be. Each day brings new opportunities for great dreams and great feats. Let's begin nowunited, confident, and determined to get the job done. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This has been a difficult week for the United States. I know we've all been deeply shaken by the tragedy of the space shuttle Challenger. America has suffered a great national loss, and we mourn as one people united in our grief. Yet as I said to young Americans last Tuesday, we must also find courage to push on. The future does not belong to the fainthearted; it belongs to the brave. The Challenger crew was pulling us into the future, and we'll continue to follow them. Nothing ends here. Our hopes and our journeys continue. Great challenges demand heroic struggles. We tend to forget, it being 19 years since our last space program setback, that progress often does not come without great cost or daunting risks. Nowhere is that lesson clearer than here in Washington, DC. The Federal Government has been living beyond its means for 24 of the last 25 years. Government has been taxing and spending your earnings as though they are inexhaustible, as though there need never be the kind of struggle to make ends meet that families undergo each week. And this is why we have nearly a $2 trillion debt hanging over our future. All of us were told by our parents, "You've got to face reality." Well, today we as a nation must face the reality that deficit spending, if permitted to continue, could eat away the economic gains we've made these last few years and undermine the well-being of our children. Recent passage of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings amendment was an admission by the Congress that zero hour is upon us, that America must make decisions we've never been willing to make before. Gramm-Rudman-Hollings will force the Congress to meet a deficit target by steadily reducing the growth in Federal spending. Each year the deficit must be cut by a fixed amount until it is brought down to zero in fiscal year 1991. If the Congress fails to make the necessary cuts, the law provides for across-the-board cuts to assure the deficit target is met. Today I have ordered Federal agencies to carry out the first round of across-the-board cuts required under the law$11.7 billion. I'm confident we can achieve these reductions while maintaining government services. Nevertheless, these budget savings make no distinction between high priority programs and those of little merit. Our administration's 1987 budget takes a different and better approach to meeting the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit targets. We propose to reform or eliminate the programs and activities that are either too big or that shouldn't exist at all. And we propose to transfer programs that should be handled by State and local governments or private enterprise consistent with their traditional responsibilities. At the same time, we'll keep faith with the fundamental commitments we made to the American people. First, we will not cut the essential programs to anyone who needs such assistance; nor will we cut Social Security payments to those who've paid their dues to society. Second, we will insist on modest but steady growth to sustain the defense program set in motion 5 years ago. When we came to Washington in 1981, U.S. military security had been shamefully neglected. We hadn't built a new land-based strategic missile system since the 1960's, and we'd been dismantling our nuclear warheads even as the Soviet Union was racing forward with the most awesome military buildup in history. The morale and training of our Armed Forces was sinking. An alarming percentage of our planes and ships couldn't take off or leave port. And the supply of basic munitions, like bullets and artillery shells, had fallen to an unacceptably low level. The Soviets want nothing more than to see America flinch and forsake the rebuilding program we've worked so hard to get started. We've spent 5 years making our military more competitive and America secure again. We must not permit this vital work to be undone in the second term. Third, let me make it plain that our budget will not increase taxes on the American people, because any tax increase the Congress sends me will be DOA, dead on arrival. We haven't built 37 months of economic expansion and created over 9 million jobs by raising taxes on the people; we've done it by increasing opportunity. And building an American opportunity society for tomorrow is the vision that must continue to unite and inspire us in the days ahead. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: If you listened to my State of the Union Address this week, you heard what will be my number-one priority in the budget debate this year: to cut the fat out of the Federal budget and to stop anyone trying to cut the heart of your family budgets. As a matter of fact, I want the Federal Government to leave the family budget alone. As you may know, a law recently passed by Congress, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, mandates steadily declining deficits each year. Currently, this law is being challenged in the courts. But whatever the outcome, we intend to go forward with our plan to bring the budget into balance by 1991 without undercutting the progress we've made in defense, without cutting Social Security or essential support programs, and without raising your taxes. But a funny thing happened on the way to Capitol Hill. Those who've carped loudest about the need to cut deficits suddenly cried "foul" when confronted with real proposals to cut deficit spending and eliminate government waste. Think of itself-proclaimed deficit warriors saying that a nearly trillion-dollar budget, a sum too staggering to comprehend, more than double what government spent only 10 years ago, is so inadequate it would wreak havoc throughout the Nation. So, once again, as they do year in and year out, they trot out their tired old litany: Tax increases are unavoidable. Well, is that so? Let me give you some facts about how a little cooperation and common sense can put us on a glide path to a balanced Federal budget without harming your family budgets or hurting any American truly in need of assistance. We begin with the projected deficit for fiscal year 1987$182 billion. Under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, we must reach a deficit target of 144 billion. So, that means we need to cut the deficit by $38 billion to get down to the 144 billion target. Where will we get the 38 billion? Well, we're going to raise a portion by holding a little garage sale to get rid of some of our business ventures operating under government subsidies that are better left to the private sector. We're going to sell our train set, better known as Conrail. It's high time government got out of the railroad business, and that includes subsidies to Amtrak. We can no longer justify paying subsidies of about $33 for every passenger who boards an Amtrak train, or funding a system in which three-quarters of the stations board fewer than 50 passengers a day, or asking taxpayers to pay 25,000 employees who provide Amtrak services for only an average of 57,000 riders per day. We're also going to raise some $2 billion in user fees, making sure government gets paid for government services when those services benefit special interests. For example, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers spends almost $3 million every day to operate and improve our harbors and inland waterways, yet commercial cargo carriers pay only 10 percent of that cost. Contrary to what you've heard, defense is not off-limits. We're cutting $3 billion there; that's $3 billion below the level Congress agreed to in August. The balance of deficit reductions we need to make to get down to $144 billion will come from $22 billion in program cuts. Now, 22 billion is a lot of money, but it's only about 2 percent of our total budget. Take out items we won't touch, such as Social Security and interest on the debt, and the cuts we're proposing come to about 5 percent of the remaining budget5 cents on the dollar. That's what we're asking Congress to cut. If Congress can't cut 5 cents on a dollar, they should never again utter a word about budget deficits. Let's face it, there's a ton of fat in this trillion-dollar government. I'm talking about government spending over $2 billion for a Los Angeles mass transit system, about as much as government could collect in revenue from all the individual income taxes paid in the State of Mississippi this year; or government spending $230 million a year for a job placement program that duplicates other programs and has failed to help workers adapt to a changing economic environment. My fellow Americans, we're poised for an historic reversal against rising deficits. The collapse we're witnessing in oil prices will give America's economy a tremendous booststretching your take-home pay further, reducing cost to industry, and making it easier for all to invest for our future. So, toss out conventional wisdom and get ready for a banner year. Already, unemployment is down to 6.6 percent, below our own projections for 1986. We're going to reach our deficit targets. We're going to preserve essential services and keep America strong. And we're not going to let anyone raise your taxesperiod. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to speak to you about a gathering crisis in our society: It's a family crisis. To some it's hidden, concealed behind tenement walls or lost in the forgotten streets of our inner cities. But for millions of Americans, the crisis is ever present and growing, and it threatens to become a permanent scar on the American promise of hope and opportunity for all. I'm talking about the crisis of family breakdowns, especially among the welfare poor, both black and white. In inner cities today, families, as we've always thought of them, are not even being formed. Since 1960 the percentage of babies born out of wedlock has more than doubled. And too often their mothers are only teenagers. They're childrenmany of them 15, 16, and 17 years old with all the responsibilities of grownups thrust upon them. The fathers of these children are often nowhere to be found. In some instances you have to go back three generations before you can find an intact family. It seems even the memory of families is in danger of becoming extinct. And what of the babies born out of wedlock, these children born to children. Statistically, we know that they're much more likely to have a low birth weight and, thus, serious health problems. We know that out-of-wedlock children often suffer abuse and neglect as well. And what sort of future can they look forward to? The family is the most basic support system there is. For two centuries now, it's been families pulling together that has provided the courage, willpower, and sense of security that have enabled millions of Americans to escape poverty and grab hold of the rungs on the ladder of opportunity. How often have we heard about the immigrant father laboring long into the night to give his children the advantages he never had? How many self-made men and women in America of all ethnic backgrounds owe their success to the strength of character given them by hard-working, loving parents? But for the children of child mothers and absentee fathers, there is often only a deepening cycle of futility, hopelessness, and despair. We're in danger of creating a permanent culture of poverty as inescapable as any chain or bond; a second and separate America, an America of lost dreams and stunted lives. The irony is that misguided welfare programs instituted in the name of compassion have actually helped turn a shrinking problem into a national tragedy. From the 1950's on, poverty in America was declining. American society, an opportunity society, was doing its wonders. Economic growth was providing a ladder for millions to climb up out of poverty and into prosperity. In 1964 the famous War on Poverty was declared and a funny thing happened. Poverty, as measured by dependency, stopped shrinking and then actually began to grow worse. I guess you could say, poverty won the war. Poverty won in part because instead of helping the poor, government programs ruptured the bonds holding poor families together. Perhaps the most insidious effect of welfare is its usurpation of the role of provider. In States where payments are highest, for instance, public assistance for a single mother can amount to much more than the usable income of a minimum wage job. In other words, it can pay for her to quit work. Many families are eligible for substantially higher benefits when the father is not present. What must it do to a man to know that his own children will be better off if he is never legally recognized as their father? Under existing welfare rules, a teenage girl who becomes pregnant can make herself eligible for welfare benefits that will set her up in an apartment of her own, provide medical care, and feed and clothe her. She only has to fulfill one conditionnot marry or identify the father. Obviously something is desperately wrong with our welfare system. With only about half of what is now spent on welfare, we could give enough money to every impoverished man, woman, and child to lift them above the poverty line. Instead, we spend vast amounts on a system that perpetuates poverty. But the waste of money pales before the sinful waste of human potential-the squandering of so many millions of hopes and dreams. In my State of the Union Address, I directed our administration to study the welfare system with a keen eye to making reforms. We already have in place a low-income assistance working group, which is hard at its task. In addition, I've instructed Attorney General Edwin Meese, as Chairman pro tern of our Domestic Policy Council, to convene a working group to evaluate the effect of a wide range of government programs on American families, especially poor families. These groups will report back to me by December 1st. The welfare tragedy has gone on too long. It's time to reshape our welfare system so that it can be judged by how many Americans it makes independent of welfare. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Two days ago I visited with some wonderful neighbors of ours, the people who live on the island of Grenada in the Caribbean. I wish every American could've seen the joy in their faces. I couldn't help remembering that just a short time ago they were living in fear of forever losing their freedom. For years, trouble had been brewing in Grenada. Power was seized by a radical group with close ties to the Communist world. They kept insisting that they had no intention of stamping out their people's fundamental rightsthe right to speak or to worship God; no intention of imposing a so-called dictatorship of the proletariat. We were told that those holding power in Grenada were simply idealists charting a new and better course for the future. All of this was part of a Communist pattern of deception that has been repeated so many times in so many places. This time, however, tons of captured documents exposed these lies. Today, for example, we know that no one had to push the clique that seized power in Grenada into the arms of the Soviet Union and Cuba. From the very start, they aligned themselves with the international Communist movement and, once in power, moved quickly to undermine the freedom of the Grenadian people. Their plan almost worked, but then some who were in on the scheme balked when the heavy hand of repression was about to come down. The brutal killings that followed were similar to the fratricidal bloodletting among Marxist-Leninists in Afghanistan, South Yemen, and even among the Salvadoran guerrillas. Sadly, in Grenada, just like elsewhere, many innocent people were also victims. I vividly remember that morning when I was awakened in the early hours and told that we'd received an urgent call for help from the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States along with Jamaica and Barbados. These neighboring democracies asked us to join them in restoring order and freedom to Grenada. There were some 800 American students and about 200 other American citizens on the island. All were in peril. So, on October 25th American military units began Operation Urgent Fury. Within a short time our citizens were safe, and the people of Grenada had been liberated from the grip of tyranny. Some of our young medical students kissed the ground when they got back home, and our servicemen were hailed as saviors by the local population in Grenada. The Communists didn't succeed in Grenada, yet a similar chain of events had been happening in Nicaragua. We hear the same old lies, while the Nicaraguan people see their freedom being stolen away. The Communists have suppressed free speech and free press. Nicaragua's Communist dictators have launched a systematic attack against the church, its priests and bishops. And government-instigated mobs mocked His Holiness John Paul II. Meanwhile, the dictatorship is being armed to the teeth with Soviet military equipment. And everyone from the Soviets, Cubans, East Germans to the PLO and Qadhafi's Libyans are turning Nicaragua into a staging area for subversion and aggression against their and our neighbors. But there's hope for the Nicaraguan people because freedom fighters are now struggling against the Communist dictatorship. Their ranks are filled with campesinos, small farmers who own a few acres of land. Many of them fought against past dictatorships. All they want is to be free and to live under democratic government. Helping those fighting for their own freedom in Nicaragua is both morally right and vital to our national security. If the Communists consolidate their power, their campaign of violence throughout Central America will go into high gear, bringing new dangers and sending hundreds of thousands of refugees streaming toward our 2,000-mile long southern border. We cannot and we must not permit this to happen. We should learn the lesson of Grenada. My meeting with nine Caribbean leaders there showed me that they certainly have. One Caribbean Prime Minister summing up the discussions said, "Sometimes we wish we were a little closer to Central America so that we could give you more support. You're on the right course in Central America," he said, "and we're begging you not to give in and allow any more Communist beachheads to be established in this hemisphere." Nineteen American servicemen lost their lives, and many more were wounded liberating Grenada. If we have the courage to do what is necessary now, helping those who are struggling to bring freedom to their country, the Nicaraguan people will be able to liberate themselves. They don't want our troops, just our aid. The people of Grenada know that doing nothing is the worst alternative. Let's make certain we all live up to our responsibility. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Wednesday I addressed the Nation on the state of our national defense. I spoke of our commitment to an historic rebuilding program that has lifted America up out of weakness and given us the strength and confidence to reassume our role as leader of the free world. In a world too often prey to the forces of violence and tyranny, America is once again a bulwark for peace and freedom. We've come far, I said, in building the solid foundations of a strong and secure national defense, but we have not finished the job. We must not let all that we've accomplished in the last 5 years be undermined by careless slashing at the defense budget. America must never again slide back into helpless insecurity. America must never become, as it looked like it was becoming in the late seventies, a paper tiger. My foremost responsibility is our national security, just as it is the prime duty of Congress to appropriate the necessary resources to keep our defenses strong. This is our duty, not only to America but to the cause of human freedom. It's also our job to make sure that every tax dollar we spend, we spend well. Defending freedom over the long haul requires that we get, as it is sometimes put, "the most bang for every buck." Defense Secretary Weinberger has already made great strides. Before we came into office, defense costs had been out of control, escalating at an annual rate of 14 percent. We got them under control. For the last 2 years, cost increases have fallen to less than i percent, significantly lower than the rate of inflation. We have saved billions, and in the process we've built the most effective fighting force in the world. But there's still more we can do. As we continue rebuilding our defenses, we must constantly look for new savings. We must, if necessary, restructure the less efficient parts of our defense program so that waste is designed out and cost-effectiveness is designed in. Last summer I appointed a bipartisan commission to study ways that we can redesign defense appropriations and management to make every defense dollar go as far as it possibly can. To head the Commission, I chose Dave Packard, an entrepreneur and self-made man who started Hewlett-Packard in a garage in the 1930's and built it into one of our country's leading high-tech computer and electronics companies. Dave is world famous for his management skill, and his company is renowned for its efficiency and modern management techniques. The initial recommendations came in this week. They are a tremendous example of American know-how applied to an extremely complex and difficult problem. Their application, I'm convinced, would make every defense dollar more effective and make America stronger. I won't go into all the details herejust give you some of the highlights. First is reform of the budgeting process, to give us firm, 5-year projections and 2-year budget cycles. We're the only major country in the world that rewrites its defense budget every yearsometimes making detailed revisions two or three times a year, and the waste that results is immense. No company in the private sector would survive if it couldn't plan for the future but had to hastily and repeatedly alter its plans to accommodate shifting budgets. The effect of funding programs this way is less defense and more cost. Furthermore, much of the waste in defense is directly attributable to the appropriations process. The vote delays on the MX missile and the suspension of the B-1 bomber cost this country billions of dollars, dollars that were lost forever as those systems that were set back had to be reprogrammed at higher cost. The report also calls for less micromanagement. Instead of scrutinizing every paper clip, bolt, and bullet, Congress should give more thought to our overall defense needs and strategy. Further changes include involving the Joint Chiefs of Staff in drawing up the budgetefficiencies for more multiyear contracting, increased use of commercial products, streamlined management, and focusing accountability within the procurement process. Also the Commission suggests changes in the organization of our military that will improve their role in national security decisionmaking. We will be announcing our implementation plans in the near future. Wherever the report points the way to greater executive effectiveness, I will implement its recommendations even if they run counter to the will of the entrenched bureaucracies and special interests. I will also urge Congress to remove those obstacles to good management that Congress itself has created over the years. This is an historic opportunity for the Congress and the executive branch to work together to give the American people what they deservethe best, most efficient, proudest Armed Forces of the world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to speak to you today about our request to help the Nicaraguan freedom fighters, which Congress should be voting on within the next 2 weeks. Let me say at the outset, this will be a vote of supreme importance. History will soon record whether the United States Congress, faced with a powerful Soviet-bloc challenge to capture Nicaragua and spread communism throughout Central America, stood by and watched or had the courage to stand up for freedom and America's security. The facts are clear, and the facts are compelling. The days of pretending Nicaragua is some aggrieved, misunderstood country, an innocent lamb of peace wishing only to live in harmony with its people and neighbors, have long passed. Nicaragua is a country held captive by a cruel clique of deeply committed Communists at war with God and man from their very first days. Between 1979 and 1981, when a trusting America was still providing more economic aid to Nicaragua than was any other nation, the Nicaraguan regime was already saying Marxist-Leninism is the scientific doctrine that guides our revolution; and this revolution goes beyond our borders. These men are deadly serious. Of all the nations in Central America, only Nicaragua suspends all civil rights; only Nicaragua suppresses political parties and refuses any dialog with its opponents; only Nicaragua murders political dissenters and indoctrinates children with class hatred; only Nicaragua persecutes the Catholic Church, humiliates its Cardinal and the Pope, and tortures believers of other religions, from Mormons to Evangelicals to Miskito Indians. Above all, only Nicaragua has become a wedge of aggression that intimidates and undermines its neighbors. Nicaragua's policy to foment violence was laid out at a secret meeting back in 1979 involving all military, intelligence, and security organizations, including the defense and secret police ministries headed by key Communists Humberto Ortega and Tomas Borge. Now this dictatorship becomes more dangerous as a flood of weapons and manpower pour in from the Soviet bloc and their coldblooded allies, the PLO and Libya. One thing alone unites these enemies of democracy: hatred for America and America's values. These men did not come to Central America to spread good will; these men came to do us harm, and they mean to succeed. As Qadhafi gloated: Supporting Nicaragua means a great thing; it means fighting America near its own borders. How can Congress ignore this storm gathering so close to our homeland? From amassing a military force larger than all other countries in the region to building the longest military airstrip in Central America-long enough to handle Soviet Backfire bombersto being chief conduit of weapons to El Salvador's guerrillas, the radicals of Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and the terrorists who recently attacked the Palace of Justice in Colombia, Nicaragua today rivals Cuba as principal Communist warehouse and exporter of violence in our Western Hemisphere. Soviet Chairman Andrey Gromyko was once quoted as saying: "America's greatest weakness is its inability to understand the Soviet Union's final goals." He was right. Today some still question our honorable commitment to peace. Well, forgive me, but those questions should be directed to the Communists, not to the United States Government, to Nicaragua's dictator, who's been back in Havana again after the Cuban Third Party Congress vowed to defeat the United States and make communism victorious worldwide. It is the Nicaraguan Communists who dismissed all our efforts to promote internal dialog and who suspended talks with their neighbors, but we're still trying. Next week I'm sending Ambassador Habib to meet with President Duarte of El Salvador, who has offered to resume talks with the guerrillas in El Salvador if the Nicaraguan Communists begin simultaneous talks with the prodemocracy forces in that country. Yet if the freedom fighters get only Band-Aids from the United States, while Nicaraguans get helicopter gunships from the Sovietsthe same death machines they're using to massacre the Afghan peoplethe Communists will feel no need to negotiate. Without power, diplomacy will be without leverage. My fellow Americans, the question is not whether we want peace in Central America. The question is: Will we meet a growing danger from the Soviets, East Germans, Bulgarians, North Koreans, Cubans, and PLO camped on our doorstepa danger which already is disrupting peace in Central America and will soon imperil our own security? That is the question which must be answered within the next 2 weeks. Our policy can keep Central America free without committing American troops. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to speak to you this afternoon about a grave threat to our country and continent: the Communist regime in Nicaragua, a nation closer to our own southern border than Washington is to Kansas City. When the pro-Soviet regime took power in Nicaragua in 1979, it claimed to embrace the highest ideals of individual liberty and promised to hold free elections. What happened? Well, not democracy, but internal repression, imprisonment, and torture, the buildup of an army and militia of more than 120,000, and subversion throughout Central America. Today Communist Nicaragua endangers our national security, it threatens our Caribbean sealanes, and still worse, it is intent on bringing the nations of Central America under Communist domination one by one-a grim achievement that would send millions of refugees flooding into our Southern States. Yet grave as it is, this threat can be averted. The Congress now has before it legislation that would send help to the Nicaraguan freedom fighters, the more than 20,000 brave men and women struggling against the Communists who now control their country. This aid could enable the freedom fighters to reclaim Nicaragua for liberty and the West. Tomorrow evening I'll discuss in full our proposal to aid the freedom fighters in a televised address from the Oval Office. For now, however, permit me to consider a single but central question: Why, many have asked, must we send the freedom fighters weapons? Why not try to achieve our objectives by negotiating with the Nicaraguan Communists instead'.) Well, the answer is simple: We've tried again and again. Since 1983 I have appointed three Special Envoys to Central America. These envoys have made 48 trips to the region, eager to engage in a serious dialog. Since June 1984 we have held not 1 but 10 high-level meetings with representatives of the Nicaraguan Communists. Each time we left empty-handed. Just yesterday my Special Envoy, Philip Habib, returned from a 49th trip to Central America. Other free nations, too, have attempted to engage the Sandinistas in good-faith negotiations. We have yet to see any concrete results. Nicaragua has indeed participated in the Contadora talkstalks sponsored by Mexico, Panama, Colombia, and Venezuelaonly to balk any time agreements seem near. Last November, President Ortega said of a document his own representatives had helped to shape, and I quote, "The peace document that the Contadora group submitted in September 1985 is unacceptable to Nicaragua." Well, recently the democratically elected President of El Salvador, Jose Napoleon Duarte, made a new and dramatic offer. If the Communists in Nicaragua agree to church-negotiated talks with their democratic opponents, President Duarte said then he would simultaneously agree to negotiate with the Soviet- and Nicaraguan-backed guerrillas in his country. Both the Nicaraguan Communists and the Salvadoran guerrillas whom they support rejected this offer. Failed attempts by El Salvador and the Contadora group, rebuffed attempts on our part. By now the truth about negotiating with the Nicaragua Communists must be abundantly clear. Yes, the Communists might meet their opponents at the table, but only when they fear meeting them in the field. In the meantime, as recent revelations make clear, the Communists are only tightening their grip on Nicaragua. Somoza, the dictator the Sandinistas overthrew, had I prison; the Sandinistas have at least 10 new gulags. And new intelligence shows that Tomas Borge, the Communist Interior Minister, is engaging in a brutal campaign to bring the freedom fighters into discredit. You see, Borge's Communist operatives dress in freedom fighters' uniforms, go into the countryside, then murder and mutilate ordinary Nicaraguans. This, then, is why I'm asking the Congress to provide the Nicaraguan freedom fighters not only with much needed humanitarian aid but with military supplies. They must be given the means to fight back. The freedom fighters seek not to destroy their Communist opponents but to liberate their country. Democracythis is all the freedom fighters ask. And all we're asking for is a democratic outcome, because a democratic Central America is vital to the security of our continent and nation. Now that negotiations with the Nicaraguan Communists have failed again and again, the time has come for Congress to give the freedom fighters what they need for their struggle for democracy to succeed. Until tomorrow evening from the Oval Office, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Thursday the House of Representatives voted on a proposal to send aid to the freedom fighters of Nicaragua, the men and women struggling against the Communists who control their country. This proposal was designed to protect our own southern borders and give the freedom fighters the chance to reclaim their nation for liberty. It would've required no new money whatsoever, but would simply have used funds already approved by Congress for defense. By a margin of 12, the House voted no. Every day that this vote is permitted to stand, every day that freedom fighters are left defenseless against Soviet helicopter gunships, more lives will be lost, and the dangers will grow from this Soviet beachhead on our continent. Already the Soviets have armed Nicaragua with tanks, antiaircraft missiles, and helicopter gunships. So-called advisers from the Soviet Union, East Germany, and Cuba swarm Nicaragua in the thousands and have helped the Nicaraguan Communists to build an army and militia of 120,000by far the biggest armed force that Central America has ever seen. But that is not all. The Sandinistas have openly admitted that they intend to spread their Communist revolution throughout Latin America. But the Nicaraguan freedom fighters have handed the Communists a setback. Although outnumbered and underequipped, the freedom fighters have pinned down thousands of Sandinista troops and countless military assets. With their blood and courage, they have bought the people of other Central American nations the precious time they need to strengthen their democracies. And, in helping to thwart the aggressive designs of the Nicaraguan Communists and their Soviet-bloc accomplices, they have directly contributed to the safety of the United States and the American people. We owe the freedom fighters a vote of thanks, not a vote of no confidence. I cannot accept the House action as final, for I cannot believe that it reflects the informed and considered will of the American people. Next week the effort to provide aid to the freedom fighters will move to the Senate. Our proposal, as it now stands, including its provision to give the freedom fighters defensive weapons immediately, represents the absolute minimum of assistance to which I can agree. Any less would be too little, any further delay would be too late. We speak not of a game in which one side can call "time out" to consider its options; we speak of a life and death struggle for liberty. The Soviet gunships will not halt their operations while we debate. The House vote must be reversed, and soon. I urge the Senate to vote on the aid program promptly and the House to take the matter up once again as its next item of business. Some of our critics insist that even the minimal assistance we're requesting is too much, and negotiations alone are the answer. Well, I must remind them that the Sandinista Communists have already concluded negotiationsin 1979 with the Organization of American States. In that agreement, the Communists promised to conduct a peaceful, nonaligned foreign policy and to hold free elections. They have done neither. I must remind our critics that our administration has pursued active diplomacy, holding 10 high-level meetings with the Sandinista regime. Always, the Communists have refused serious negotiations. I must further remind our critics that promising diplomatic proposals were on the table when Thursday's damaging House vote took place. President. Duarte of El Salvador and his Central American colleagues had proposed that a dialog take place simultaneously between the freedom fighters and the Nicaraguan Communists, between the Salvadoran Government and its Communist opponents, and between the Nicaraguan Communists and the United States. We support this initiative, but the Nicaraguan Communists have refused to take part. So, I would say to our critics: Join me in providing all the resources necessaryand that means military aid to the freedom fightersto bring the Nicaraguan Communists to the table and to make them honor the international promise they have already made to the Organization of American States. The Communists, themselves, have shown again and again that diplomacy alone is not enough. As your President, I cannot leave my successor, I cannot leave our children, to face grave dangers and agonizing decisions that with a minimum of foresight and courage could've been averted. The freedom fighters have done much; they ask little. Let us act to help them together, Democrats and Republicans, and let us act now. Then we can get on with the business of lending a hand to our neighbors as they attack poverty and create economic opportunity for their people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
As most of you know, this week is one of the holiest and most solemn in the Christian calendar and will be followed soon by one of the holiest Jewish holidays. How sad it is, then, that this season has been marred by crisis and violence. United States ships and aircraft operating in international waters in the Mediterranean were fired on by the forces of the north African nation, Libya. This was a direct military confrontation provoked by Libya's dictator, Colonel Qadhafi, who usually prefers to arm, train, and direct terrorists who gun down helpless civiliansfor example, those terrorists who killed 19 civilians last December at the Rome and Vienna airports. The Libyan Government called the attackswhich left five Americans dead, including an ii-year-old girlheroic acts. But last week Colonel Qadhafi tried his luck with some people who could actually defend themselvesUnited States Armed Forces, our 6th Fleet. I think it's enough to say the fleet suppressed the attacks with no loss of life. But as if violence in the Mediterranean wasn't enough, we also had word from Central America that forces of the Communist government of Nicaragua, the Sandinistas, invaded the nearby nation of Honduras in an attempt to destroy Nicaraguan freedom fighters, who have taken up refuge there. Once again, the news for the forces of freedom was good. The freedom fighters gave the invading Communists a resounding defeat. Still, it's sad to have to begin this report with such accounts. Eastertide for Christians and Passover for Jews are meant to be times of spiritual awareness and a deepening encounter with the Lord and with the Lord's injunction that all nations and peoples of the Earth live in peace and harmony with each other. So, perhaps a word or two is in order on the source of the violence that we've see this week. You see, dictators like those in Libya or in Nicaragua know how unpopular they are with their people. They know how shaky their rule is. They can never really feel secure. And that's why they're afraid of free elections. It's also why they need a secret police and so much armed might to intimidate those they fear most, their own people, to prevent them from even entertaining the hope that democracy will some day come to their own country. And that's why so many dictators have a special fear and hatred for the United States. American power, as long as it is used wisely and justly, is an undying symbol of hope for oppressed peoples around the world. Recently, in nations like El Salvador, Grenada, the Philippines, and Haiti, we've seen how quickly that hope can blossom into democratic movements. We have a right to be proud that in all those instances the United States was able to help. So, let us be thankful this week that America has been permitted to further the cause of peace and freedom. And in particular let us give thanks for one of our most cherished freedoms: freedom of choice and religious belief, the freedom to worship, each in our own way. You know, a few years ago, when I spoke to some evangelical ministers, I noted that there was sin and evil in the world and that all of us had a spiritual obligation to fight it. This was interpreted by a few to mean opposition to totalitarian and Communist dictators. Well, of course, that's true. But the real context of that quote is rarely given. I was talking specifically then about America's own spiritual problems. I reminded those ministers that America, too, like any other people or nation, had what I called "a legacy of evil" to contend with, things like racism or anti-Semitism or other forms of intolerance. And I urged those ministers to help fight the battle against hate groups in their communities, who promote intolerance. And it really struck a note with them. Well, that's what America is all about: freedom, tolerance, each different religious and racial group looking out for the rights of the other. And I think this is a good theme for all of us to reflect upon as we worship and give thanks to the Lord. Let us pray that America will always use her power wisely, justly, and humbly to defend our legitimate interests, to help those who are struggling for freedom. But let us pray, too, that God will give our country the humility to see our own faults and the strength to preserve our hard-won tradition of freedom to worship and religious tolerance. As Lincoln said more than a century agoin the midst of the struggle to eradicate another great evil, slaveryhe was not so much concerned that God was on our side as he was that he was on God's side. In this season of Easter, in this coming season of Passover, and in every season, may this always be America's prayer. Until next week, then, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I will soon send a message to the Congress asking your Senators and Representatives to join me in reforming the Defense Establishment. That includes my office, the Defense Department, the Congress, and industry. The changes our administration will request are based upon the recommendations made in February by the Packard commission, a bipartisan group that spent months studying ways to give our nation stronger defenses more economically. Earlier this week I ordered implementation of those recommendations that can be made without congressional action. Now, with congressional support, we'll be able to put into effect perhaps the most thoroughgoing reform of our Defense Establishment since 1958. This new effort takes place against a background of national defenses that have already grown much stronger. When we first took office, we inherited a navy that had shrunk from nearly 1,000 ships to less than 500 and planes that couldn't fly for want of spare parts. My predecessor had called attention to this and had proposed a 5-year expansion of the defense budget. Well, now our rebuilding program has added ships to the fleet, put planes back in the air, and, perhaps most important, boosted the morale of our men and women in uniform by giving them the training and pay they deserve. Much still needs to be done, but today the United States has substantially reestablished the strength and self-confidence it needs to perform its role as the leader of the free world. As we rebuild our strength, we've made strides in marshaling the defense resources of the Nation with increased efficiency. Before we came into office, the costs of major systems had been escalating at an annual rate of 14 percent. With lower inflation, Defense Secretary Weinberger got that crazy spiral under control. Indeed, for the last 2 years cost increases have fallen to less than 1 percent. That's lower than the rate of inflation. This one achievement alone has saved billions of dollars. Yet, despite these successes, Secretary Weinberger and I knew at the beginning of our second term that still more needed to be done. So, last summer I appointed a bipartisan commission to study the management of our defenses. To chair the commission I chose Dave Packard, an entrepreneur who started a company that had become one of our country's leaders in high technology, famous the world over for its management techniques and efficiency. He was joined by 16 outstanding Americans, Republicans and Democrats, who represent the best of the business, defense, and academic communities. In February the Packard commission submitted its recommendations. Now the time has come to put them into effect. Some recommendations can be acted upon without congressional approval, and under Secretary Weinberger's leadership this is taking place. This week I signed a directive that will enhance coordination between the two sides of the Pentagon budget process: the one that says what we need and the one that says what we can afford. In addition, the Pentagon is streamlining its large procurement structure, and it will begin to give experienced managers more leeway for using their own good judgment in the purchasing process. But certain steps that would make the Department of Defense even more shipshape can take place only with congressional approval. You know, it's as if the Pentagon can swab the decks on its own, but only the Congress can grant permission to polish the brasswork. Well, it's to get this permission that I'm sending my message to Capitol Hill. The Packard commission report urges the Congress to make a number of improvements in the way it deals with defense. The commission suggests, for example, that the Congress move from a 1-year to a 2-year budget cycle. It also urges the Congress to better focus its consideration of defense matters. Today there are some 40 congressional committees and subcommittees, each of which has some jurisdiction over defense. And the Packard commission points out that many of these committees duplicate each other's efforts. And friends, we can all agree with the Packard commission: There must be a better, more efficient way. Other recommendations that Congress must approve include moving from year-to-year to multiyear procurements of weapon systems in order to make the acquisition process more stable; the rewriting of procurement laws to eliminate red tape; and the budgeting of major programs according to milestones within the programs themselves, not the dictates of the calendar year. In the coming weeks the Congress will have before it proposals that would both strengthen our defenses and make the Department of Defense, itself, more completely the servant of the American people. The Packard commission has made its recommendations; now it's time for the administration and the Congress to act upon them. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to speak this afternoon about our nation's budget and your own. By April 15th, the same date by which you and I must file our Federal income tax returns, the Congress is required by law to pass a budget resolution. This resolution must tell in outline form how much the Congress intends to spend in 1987 and how it intends to raise this money from you, the American people. As the Congress puts this budget outline together, there is good news and bad news. The good news is that, in large part, as a result of our policies of low taxes and limited government, our economy is breaking records. Inflation is at its lowest level in nearly a decade and a half. Interest rates have toppled. The prime rate, which was running at more than 21 percent when we took office 5 years ago, has fallen to just 9 percent, the lowest point in nearly 8 years. And as interest rates continue to fall, mortgage rates are coming down, making it much easier to buy homes. One piece of good news deserves special mention: the dramatic drop in oil prices. When our administration took office, we at once decontrolled the price of oil. Some predicted this would send gas prices at the pump through the roof; not so. The production of oil and other fuels increased, putting pressure on the OPEC oil cartel. Today the OPEC cartel has been dramatically undercut, and oil prices have collapsed from about $34 per barrel in 1982 to about $13. Some are having to make a difficult adjustment to these new, lower prices. But overall, less expensive oil represents a tremendous boon to our economy. Already, you're beginning to pay less for petroleum products of all kinds, including heating oil and gasoline. Isn't it good to be able to put a gallon of gas in the car for less than a dollar again? The good news, in the largest sense, is that our nation now has the chance to continue building sustained and vigorous economic growth, the likes of which we haven't seen since the 1950's and 1960'sa lasting era of good times and prosperity. We need only bring marginal tax rates down lower and get government spending under control, cutting the Federal budget, not the family budget. Now for the bad news: As the April 15th deadline approachesthe deadline American taxpayers must meet whether we want to or notthe budget resolution the Congress must put together is nowhere near completion. In the meantime, the leadership of the House of Representatives is resisting all attempts to control spending. Indeed, a supplemental appropriations bill now under House consideration would include provisions which could increase Federal expenditures over $30 billion over the next 3 years and take away my authority to defer needless spending. And in the Senate recently the Budget Committee voted in favor of a plan that over 3 years would raise your taxes by nearly $50 billion. Part of the problem here is misguided thinking. Many don't understand that the real trouble isn't just the Federal deficit itself, but government overspending. You see, the more the Government spends, the more resources it takes from the private sector, the greater the upward pressure on interest rates, and the lower the rate of economic growth. Whether the Government obtains its funds through taxation or borrowing, the root problem remains the samegovernment use of spending to take over more and more of the economic life of our nation. This smothers the private sector incentives that keep our economy vibrant. A tax hike now would only encourage the Congress to spend more. All that we've worked so hard to achieve, all the good economic news, could be harmed. That's why I want to say to you again today: My veto pen is inked up and ready to go. Sometimes a President just has to spell relief, V-E-T-O. We submitted a budget to the Congress last February that meets the deficit-shrinking requirements set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings act, and does so while avoiding a tax hike. At the same time, our budget keeps America's defenses strong. We also urge the Congress to pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and a proposal to give each President a line-item veto-two measures that would make certain, once and for all, that government spends no more than government takes in. My friends, that's all it would takejust the line-item veto and the balanced budget amendment, a strong defense, a responsible budget, and a commitment to lower marginal tax rates further-to turn all the good economic news of recent days into the beginnings of a new and lasting prosperity. Isn't it time the Congress got government out of the way and let the good times roll? Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: With summer coming, a lot of Americans will be driving more than ever, going on "See America First" vacations and driving everywhere from New Jersey to California in everything from vans to buses to motorbikes. This is a good time for it because gas prices continue to fall. In fact, they are falling as never before. The oil price decline of the 1980's has been a triumph not of government, but of the free market; and not of political leaders, but of freedom itself. When I first came into office in January of 1981, the price of gas was just about $1.25 a gallon. The price of a barrel of oil had reached $36. Americans were understandably frustrated and angry as they cast about for answers. Some people advocated more governmental intervention. Demands for divestitures of oil companies filled the air. Other people demanded gas rationing. Well, we said no. I didn't want to force more limits on people through rationing. I wanted to ease the situation by letting freedom solve the problem through the magic of the marketplace. One week after I took office, we decontrolled the price of domestic oil, and we stopped the Government from putting ceilings on its pricing and production. Our action wasn't exactly greeted by rave reviews. Those opposed said decontrol would drive up the price of oil, increase gas prices, and cause terrible inflation. One Member of Congress, a Democrat from Massachusetts, said decontrol would impose impossible economic burdens on those least able to pay. Well, 5 years later, Massachusetts is enjoying an unprecedented economic comeback; and the reason is lower taxessomething else we contributed toand the lowered energy prices that followed the decontrol of domestic oil. Despite all the scare tactics and dire warnings, decontrol was a success. The price of oil has fallen from the $36 a barrel of 1981 to about $12 a barrel today. The price of gas has also plummeted from an average of $1.25 a gallon when I took office to about 82 cents today. In fact, the price of gas is now cheaper in real terms, meaning accounting for inflation, than it's been at any point since the 1950's. My mother used to tell me, "It's not nice to crow," but maybe this once I can't help it. We've also been able to close down the costly Synfuels Corporation, a quasi-governmental agency that ate up billions of taxpayer dollars while it didn't solve the energy crisis. Government didn't perform any of these miracles; freedom did, the marketplace did, the entrepreneurs and businessmen and women of America did. Those of us back in Washington just sort of lifted the artificial restraints, sat back, and watched the gushers blow. But the oil harvest of the eighties is not just an economic story; it also has implications for our national security. When I came into office the United States was consuming about 17 million barrels of oil a day6 million imported. A big part of that oil came from the Middle East. Today we consume less than 16 million barrels of oil a day, and only 4 million are imported. But what may prove to be even more significant is that we've changed who we buy our imported oil from. Back in 1981 most of it came from the OPEC countries, but now most of it comes from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Great Britain. As Vice President Bush pointed out recently, we've assured that our supplies won't be as vulnerable to international politics as they've been in the past. We need a strong U.S. energy industry to keep it that way. I wish the entire energy picture were nothing but good news, but that, unfortunately, isn't so. While the energy-dependent States of the Nation are enjoying increased economic well-being, the economies of our oil States have cooled. Producers, large and small, have suffered a dramatic loss of income. Many small companies face bankruptcy. While our belief in the free market remains firm, that belief is not inconsistent with the sense of compassion and concern for the individuals who bear its economic consequences. But the answer to these problems is not an import fee on imported oil. That would be a step backward. What we have to do now is go forward with actions that will further improve our energy production, freeing up all remaining energy prices. That means doing to domestic gas what we did to domestic oildecontrolling it. Last week Energy Secretary John Herrington sent to Congress a bill to lift all remaining controls on natural gas prices. The result will once again be a boom for consumers, with the average residential customer saving up to $45 on his or her gas bill on the first full year of decontrol alone. I think it's time we seized the moment and decided to finish the work we began in 1981. It's time to go for lower prices, go for more freedom, and go for the growth that will follow. We'll be going for it in the Congress soon, and we hope to win as we did in '81with your support. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today Nancy and I are heading west across the wide Pacific on one of the longest overseas journeys of my Presidency. The first leg of the trip will take me to Indonesia, where I'll be meeting with the leader of that country, President Soeharto, a longtime friend of the United States. President Soeharto and I first met when I traveled to his country in December of 1973. At the time I was Governor of California. Later, in 1982, President Soeharto paid us the honor of a state visit to the White House. President Soeharto has been a most responsible influence in world affairs and a force for the economic progress of his people at home. He and his government have guided Indonesia to self-sufficiency in rice production and to a respected level of financial creditworthiness. Indonesia is a richly diverse nation with over 160 million people on islands stretching over 3,000 miles. The people there have made significant economic strides over the last decade. I'm grateful to have this opportunity to meet and discuss with President Soeharto the many areas of mutual concern to the United States and Indonesia. While in Indonesia, I will also be meeting with the six foreign ministers of ASEAN, the Association of South East Asian Nations. President Soeharto has played a personal role in the success of this effective and admirable organization. ASEAN is composed of six nationsIndonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand, and Brunei which in so many ways symbolize the dynamic change taking place in the Pacific Basin. Collectively, ASEAN nations are our country's fifth largest trading partner. In 1985 our trade with them reached $23 1/2 billion. We share democratic values and an energetic pursuit of commerce. We share a commitment to free markets, free trade, and free people. The ASEAN nations are not only our trading partners but also our good and trusted friends. During my trip, I'll be emphasizing to our ASEAN friends and to the others with whom I'll meet that the United States is a Pacific power. We expect to continue playing a constructive role in shaping the future of this vibrant and vital part of the world. My discussions with the foreign ministers of ASEAN will cover a wide range of economic and security issues. One item on the agenda is Cambodia. ASEAN has demonstrated exemplary responsibility and leadership concerning the Vietnamese invasion and continuing occupation of this country. America, along with our ASEAN friends, believes that Vietnam should withdraw its forces from Cambodia and permit the Cambodian people to determine their own destiny. Vietnam has spurned any and all reasonable ASEAN requests for a negotiated settlement of the problem. The United States has made it clear that it's ready to participate constructively in an overall settlement. The Communist government of Vietnam, however, to the detriment of their own national interest, remains intransigent. What we and our ASEAN friends are seeking is a stable, free, and prosperous Pacific Basin. We want to build an environment in which people can work, produce, and trade together, enriching everyone's life in the process. One of the initiatives associated with our trip concerns a threat to the well-being of every nation, an evil undermining the family and tearing at the fabric of this society. I am, of course, talking about the scourge of drug abuse. Nancy has made the fight against drug abuse her own. She'll be traveling with me to Indonesia, but from there, while I move on to the Tokyo Economic Summit, Nancy will go to Malaysia and Thailand, where she will meet with people involved in drug abuse prevention and rehabilitation programs. These countries share our commitment to end the pain and suffering inflicted by drug addiction. I'm very proud of the work that Nancy's doing to this end. All caring people in every country should unite to fight this menace. While Nancy is in Malaysia and Thailand, I will meet in Tokyo with the leaders of seven industrialized democratic nations. There is a variety of subjects, areas of mutual interest and concern to discuss. Our catch words will be "freedom" and "cooperation." Today the prospects for the Western World are brighter than in many years. As I fly across the expanses of the Pacific in Air Force One, I go knowing that the winds of freedom are blowing. Totalitarian nations, with their centralized planning and bureaucratic controls, are going nowhere. The free world, as is especially evident on the Pacific rim, is moving at an accelerated pace into a new era of opportunity and progress. These are exciting times to be alive, to be free, and to be an American. Until next week when I'll be speaking to you from Tokyo, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
Greetings from Tokyo. I'm here for the 12th annual meeting of 7 major industrialized democracies. I flew here last night after a meeting in Indonesia with some of America's close friends and energetic trading partners. During my stay there, I conferred with President Soeharto of Indonesia on a number of issues of common interest to our countries. President Soeharto has led his country during a period of impressive economic growth. Over the last 15 years the annual increase in Indonesia's gross national product has averaged 6.8 percent. The Indonesian people have reaped the rewards of a higher standard of living. While in Indonesia I also met with the foreign ministers of six countries which make up the Association of South East Asian Nations, or ASEAN. Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand, and Brunei have joined together in one of the most successful and admirable regional groupings in the developing world. Our relations with these ASEAN countries exemplify the mutual benefits that can be derived from close and open relations among free and enterprising peoples. Over the last two decades ASEAN countries committed to free trade and open markets have had some of the highest growth rates in the world. Commerce between us has created a host of jobs on both sides of the Pacific. The sound management of their economic affairs enable the ASEAN countries to weather much of the turbulence experienced in other parts of the world. On the eve of the economic summit here in Tokyo, there was much to talk over with our ASEAN friends. One of the issues of concern to us all, and a subject I expect to discuss in detail at the economic summit, is the growing pressure for protectionism to shut world markets. Unfettered commerce has been a mighty force for growth and prosperity since the close of the Second World War. Our open trading system has kept America efficient and on the cutting edge of technology. While free trade means change and progress, protectionism invariably leads to stagnation and decline. Well, Americans aren't going to be left behind by anyone. But like our friends in ASEAN, we want to make certain that free trade is not a one-way proposition, that markets are open in all countries, and that other governments do not unfairly subsidize their exports. I assured our ASEAN friends that the United States will continue to fight tradekilling protectionism and aggressively pursue open markets and trade that is free and fair. There is no reason to doubt America's ability to compete, no reason to lack confidence in our working men and women and our corporate leaders. When everyone plays with the same rules, our people have what it takes: the ingenuity, the hard work, and the integrity to compete with anyone, anytime, anywhere. Economic challenges remain. At the summit we will discuss interrelated problems of growth, debt, trade, and finance. The fundamental strength of the economies of our summit partners will be a major focus of our discussions. At the same time, however, we will address the situation of debtor countries. Growth-oriented structural reforms in developing countries and the opening of their economies to international trade and investment is the path to progress. It's up to the industrialized democracies to lead the way. The summit will also serve as a forum for discussion of critical noneconomic issues: the environment and terrorism, for example. Poet John Donne once wrote that "No man is an island." Well, when it comes to terrorism, no country is a fortress. The death of innocent people at the hands of terrorists, then, is everybody's business, a threat to the liberty and well-being of all free people. Here in Tokyo I'll be talking with the leaders of the other industrialized democracies about what must be done in response to terrorism, especially state-sponsored terrorism. We must and will stand as one against the enemies of civilization. Seldom has the interdependence of modern industrial States been more evident than this past week. All Americans, indeed the entire world, sympathize with those affected by the tragedy at Chernobyl. We stand ready, as do many nations, to assist in any way we can. But the contrast between the leaders of free nations meeting at the summit to deal openly with common concerns and the Soviet Government, with its secrecy and stubborn refusal to inform the international community of the common danger from this disaster, is stark and clear. The Soviets' handling of this incident manifests a disregard for the legitimate concerns of people everywhere. A nuclear accident that results in contaminating a number of countries with radioactive material is not simply an internal matter. The Soviets owe the world an explanation. A full accounting of what happened at Chernobyl and what is happening now is the least the world community has a right to expect. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Just about a year ago I went on national television to speak of a great national endeavor for our future, an effort by all of us to give the words freedom, fairness, and hope new meaning and power for every man and woman in America. I spoke to you about what we must do to transform a tax system, rotting from unfairness and complexity, a source of unending resentment and enmity, into one that is clear, simple, and fair for all, a system that could no longer run roughshod over Main Street America, but would ensure your families and firms incentives and rewards for hard work and risk-taking in an American future of strong economic growth. Death and taxes may be inevitable, but unjust taxes are not. And so we proposed, as our number-one domestic priority, a radical reform to simplify the tax system and lower your tax rates, clear out the clutter of special provisions, free ourselves from the grip of special interests, and create a binding commitment to the only special interest that counts: you, the people who pay America's bills. All of usour White House team, Jim Baker's at Treasury, and everyone else in the administrationhave fought hard to get tax reform passed into law. But from day one the Washington establishment has been firing its big guns trying to shoot tax reform down. According to these experts, we never had a chance. If you listen to conventional wisdom here, to the wisdom of Washington's most influential lobbyist and insiders, tax reform was never more than a pipe dream. Less than i month ago we were told that tax reform is dead. Well, just in case you missed one of the headlines last week, it read: "Sudden twists in tax bill's course leave lobbyists stunned, bewildered." What happened? The people won, that's what happened. Well, they may not have won quite yet; but thanks to heroic work of Senator Bob Packwood, members of his finance committee, our administration, and you, the political entrepreneurs have just won a magnificent first victory over the stagnating forces of the status quo. America today stands poised to lift off into a new age of opportunity powered by one of the most exciting economic changes of my lifetime. Passed by an overwhelming 20 to 0 bipartisan vote, this proposal is really radical in scope. It dramatically simplifies the entire tax rate structure and reduces personal income tax rates to their lowest levels in over half a century. There will be only two simple rates: 15 and 27 percent. Over 80 percent of all Americans will pay a tax rate of 15 percent or less. In addition, the Finance Committee proposal will raise the personal and dependents' exemption to $2,000 for all middle- and low-income Americans. It will remove 6 million working poor from the tax rolls all together. That's right, I said 6 million. It will sweep into the trash bins of our past literally scores of unfair, unwise, unproductive tax shelters. It will make business decisions depend on economic merits rather than on tax considerations. And it will make America more competitive in world markets. Finally, the proposal will make an enormous contribution toward tax fairness by providing for a minimum tax of 20 percent on certain items of tax preference. In this way, we can be sure that all individuals and corporations finally pay their fair share. Of course, this bill is not perfect. But several months ago I wrote several Members of the House specifying the conditions that must be met for my support. This bill meets those conditions. As far as I'm concerned, it's a giant step forward. My Council of Economic Advisers believes that the Senate finance bill is progrowth and pro-opportunity. They estimate that added incentives and efficiencies could increase America's growth rate nearly 10 percent over the next decade. That could mean as much as $600 to $900 more income per household each year. Jobs could rise an additional 4 million over that period. That's why I'm asking Republicans and Democrats to unite to move this legislation through Congress as fast as possible, so you, the people, can set the stage to make America the world's economic superstar through the nineties and the year 2000. As I seem to remember saying once before: Let's go for it! Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We're broadcasting live today from Fort Myer, a military installation just outside Washington. And before me at this moment, looking tall and impressive, are members of the honor guard of the five branches of the military service: the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard. These proud units appear at special ceremonies and are always on hand to help me greet foreign heads of state at the White House. And believe me, the leaders of other nations have often commented on the snap, the polish, and the soldierly bearing of these troops. In fact, I sometimes think a few of our visitors are a little envious of "The Gipper," as our uniformed sons and daughters pass by in review. Well, okay, in my case, our uniformed grandsons and granddaughters. [Laughter] But today we're all on hand at Fort Myer to celebrate a very special date in America's official calendar: Armed Forces Day. Today we set aside a few moments to pay tribute to the millions of Americans serving their nation in the cause of freedom all over the globe. Many of them are listening to me now, and as Commander in Chief I want to remind each of you in uniform how grateful your country is to you. Let me assure you that the millions of Americans going about their usual Saturday schedule and listening now join me in saying to you, "Thanks-thanks for being there, for keeping our homes and children safe, for keeping America free and at peace." Now, I know you here with me and most members of the armed services listening at the moment aren't in your dress uniforms, and maybeand I'm sure it only happens every now and thenyour shoeshines aren't quite as bright as the ones I'm looking at here. But I know the sense of military professionalism, love of country, and commitment to freedom is just as strong. It's because of that patriotism and professionalism that you've left your homes and communities to become part of an extraordinary military tradition. Unlike so many other traditions, America's military history has been largely one not just of great battlefield victories but victories in the name of something beyond conquest or self-interest. Here in America we've been fortunate to be the keeper and custodian of a dreama dream that began this nation, a dream that millions of people hope to share in someday. And every member of America's Armed Forces has a special part in keeping that dream alive. The dream, of course, is freedom, and truly those of you in uniform today are freedom's honor guard. The new patriotism that's alive in our nation today is reflected in these young people joining our military services. They're better educated, better trained, and as highly motivated as any time in our history. These young Americans look to a future they know will be free as long as America remains strong and her people resolute. But this revitalization of our military was a long time coming, the result of a lengthy legislative battle here in Washington. Time after time in the postwar era, the American people have made it clear that those who trifle with our national security and oppose adequate military budgets will be held responsible on election day. And it's this kind of support from the American people that got a consistently reluctant Congress to vote the appropriations necessary to rebuild America's defenses. But old habits die hard, and much of what we've achieved is now in jeopardy. As one Congressman described the inconsistency, "We are marching down the mountain we have been marching up." You see, the House of Representatives recently passed a military budget that is wholly inadequate, a throwback to the seventies, a budget that is a breach of faith with our Armed Forces and our allies and would send exactly the wrong signal to the Soviets and their satellites. So, today I not only want to ask every American to join me in saluting our young Americans in uniform, I want to reiterate that the best way to ensure their lives are never placed in jeopardy is to send a message to Washington and to the world, a message that says the American people are committed to national defense and that we stand behind those who wear our country's uniform. We owe a great debt to those on freedom's first line of defensemen like Captain Lorence and Captain Ribas-Dominicci, Air Force pilots who recently lost their lives in the raid on Libyan terrorists. We honor them today and all the members of freedom's honor guard. And we say thank you to you, our Armed Forces, and pledge our support for adequate military expenditures, a strong defense, and the dream of world freedom and peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As we begin this Memorial Day weekend, I'd like to take a moment to consider one of the wellsprings of our greatness as a nation: our willingness to serve each other. When the Frenchman Alexis de Tocqueville traveled across our country more than a century and a half ago, he was struck by the volunteer spirit that he encountered. "The Americans," he wrote, "make associations to found seminaries, to build inns, to construct churches, to diffuse books, to send missionaries to the ends of the Earth." In large part because of this concern for their fellow men that he saw in the American people, de Tocqueville concluded that America is great, because she is good. Today our nation remains great and good, and the spirit of private sector initiative has become a major part of American life. Indeed, just yesterday it was my honor to sign a proclamation requested by Congress that proclaims tomorrow, May 25th, Hands Across America Day. And my family and I plan to join in the line as it passes through the White House grounds. Hands Across America represents a nationwide effort to help the poor and homeless who live in our country. Tomorrow millions will join in that ancient gesture of good will and friendship, the linking of hands, in a demonstration of concern for the less fortunate. To all those participating: Good luck. I can wish you nothing finer than the satisfaction of knowing that you've given of yourselves to help others. In the past few years we've witnessed an unprecedented outpouring of charity and good willa reassertion of good, old-fashioned neighborliness now that our country has regained its self-confidence. The figures tell the story. Last year alone, individuals, corporations, bequests, and foundations gave nearly $80 billion to good causes. That amount marked an all-time high and came to over $6.5 billion more than the amount donated in 1984. And according to a recent study, some 89 million Americans perform volunteer work every year. I think we're entitled to feel pretty good about that. In a way, though, the individual stories are even more impressive than the figures. This past Thursday, Nancy hosted the first international Just Say No walk here at the White House. Just Say No is an organization teaching children around the world to say no to drugs. Indeed, this week was Just Say No to Drugs Week, and the White House rally involved 2,300 youngsters from Just Say No clubs throughout our nation's Capital. As you might expect, these clubs require school officials, teachers, and especially parents to give a great deal of time. Nancy told me everyone she spoke to at the White House rally was absolutely convinced that it's truly vital. Then there's an organization called HOPEfor Help Other People Everywhere. Founded in Northfield, Minnesota, by Verona Devney, a legal secretary who decided to help the needy by sewing and donating clothes, today HOPE distributes clothes to some 5,000 families a year. In San Antonio, Texas, Nick Monreal founded Teach the Children, and this organization has raised tens of thousands of dollars to provide school supplies to thousands of children from economically disadvantaged families. And in Philadelphia, a group called Wheels has been providing transportation for the sick and handicapped to and from hospitals and doctors' offices since 1959. There is no charge and no reliance on government funds. One private sector initiative I find most moving is called Christmas in April. Founded by Bobby Trimble of Midland, Texas, Christmas in April organizes volunteers across the country to repair the homes of needy older and handicapped Americans. Right here in Washington, Christmas in April helped a woman named DeLois Ruffing. DeLois ran a home for the elderly that badly needed repairs. The ceiling was virtually falling down around her. With her permission, early one April day more than a dozen volunteersattorneys, journalists, housewives, even a judgearrived to do what was needed. Ten hours later, the plumbing and ceiling had been fixed, and the walls were gleaming. And today DeLois is a Christmas in April volunteer herself. As these and so many other organizations prove, the generosity and character of the American people that de Tocqueville observed more than 150 years ago remain a powerful and life-giving force. So, let us reflect this Memorial Day weekend upon the unselfish millions who are improving the quality of life for all Americans in so many wonderful ways. And as always, let us remember those who gave the greatest gift of all, the gift of their lives, so that we today might live in a nation of freedom. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: History is likely to record that 1986 was the year when the world, at long last, came to grips with the plague of terrorism. For too long, the world was paralyzed by the argument that terrorism could not be stopped until the grievances of terrorists were addressed. The complicated and heartrending issues that perplex mankind are no excuse for violent, inhumane attacks, nor do they excuse not taking aggressive action against those who deliberately slaughter innocent people. In our world there are innumerable groups and organizations with grievances, some justified, some not. Only a tiny fraction has been ruthless enough to try to achieve their ends through vicious and cowardly acts of violence upon unarmed victims. Perversely, it is often the terrorists themselves who prevent peacefully negotiated solutions. So, perhaps the first step in solving some of these fundamental challenges in getting to the root cause of conflict is to declare that terrorism is not an acceptable alternative and will not be tolerated. Effective antiterrorist action has also been thwarted by the claim thatas the quip goes"One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter." That's a catchy phrase, but also misleading. Freedom fighters do not need to terrorize a population into submission. Freedom fighters target the military forces and the organized instruments of repression keeping dictatorial regimes in power. Freedom fighters struggle to liberate their citizens from oppression and to establish a form of government that reflects the will of the people. Now, this is not to say that those who are fighting for freedom are perfect or that we should ignore problems arising from passion and conflict. Nevertheless, one has to be blind, ignorant, or simply unwilling to see the truth if he or she is unable to distinguish between those I just described and terrorists. Terrorists intentionally kill or maim unarmed civilians, often women and children, often third parties who are not in any way part of a dictatorial regime. Terrorists are always the enemies of democracy. Luckily, the world is shaking free from its lethargy and moving forward to stop the bloodshed. Nearly a month ago in Tokyo, the leaders of the major Western democracies hammered out an agreement on tough measures to eradicate this evil. Ironically the progress made in Tokyo is now imperiled by a lack of consistent support at home. For nearly a year now a handful of United States Senators have held up approval of a supplementary extradition treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom. This agreement, when ratified, would prevent terrorists who have kidnaped, killed, or maimed people in Britain from finding refuge in our country. Today these killers are able to do just that by labeling their vile acts as political. Well, in Tokyo the democracies declared there is no political or any other justification for terrorist acts and those who commit them should be brought to justice. The world is watching. If actions by a few Senators allow terrorists to find safe haven in the United States, then there will be irreparable damage. Refusal to approve the supplementary treaty would undermine our ability to pressure other countries to extradite terrorists who have murdered our citizens. And rejection of this treaty would be an affront to British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, one European leader who, at great political risk, stood shoulder to shoulder with us during our operations against Qadhafi's terrorism. Some members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have gone so far as to prepare a substitute treaty permitting those who have murdered British policemen and soldiers, for so-called political reasons, to avoid extradition. Well, this substitute is not a compromise; it's retreat. Its passage would be a victory for terrorism and a defeat for all we've been trying to do to stop this evil. One concern about the treaty is that it may set a precedent for other treaties, which will then be used against those who simply oppose totalitarian regimes. We can never permit that to happen. Our country will always remain the beacon of hope and freedom to all oppressed peoples. I therefore urge the Senate to promptly approve the revised treaty and reinforce the momentum building against terrorism. With good sense, courage, and international cooperation, our struggle against terrorism will be won. And the United States will lead the way into a freer and more peaceful tomorrow. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to read to you from a very famous U.S. Government document: "For purposes of Paragraph (3), an organization described in Paragraph (2) shall be deemed to include an organization described in Section 501(c) (4), (5), or (6) which would be described in Paragraph (2) if it were an organization described in Section 509(a)(3)." Not exactly the Declaration of Independence or Lincoln's second inaugural. No, it's the last sentence in section 509(a) ofyou guessed it-the Internal Revenue Code. Now why, on a Saturday in the springtime, would I raise such an unpleasant topic as taxes? Well, I wanted you to know that, just for once, the news about taxes is actually goodin fact, "great" might be the word. You see, if the Congress moves speedily this summer, most of you are going to be getting a reduction in tax rates starting next year. That's because there's a new bill that's going to drastically overhaul the tax code and reduce the current 14 tax rates to only 215 percent and 27 percent. That means 80 percent of the American people will be paying the rate of 15 percent or less. For most of you, that's going to be a significant tax cut. But lower tax rates aren't all. This new legislation raises the personal and dependent's exemption from $1,080 to $2,000 for all but the very richest Americans. It also removes 6 million poor people from the income tax rolls, making it one of the most effective antipoverty programs in our history. And the Council of Economic Advisers tells me that the added incentives and efficiencies in the bill could increase our country's growth rate nearly 10 percent over the next decade. That could mean as many as 4 million new jobs. It could also mean as much as $600 to $900 more real income per household each year; $600 to $900 each yearnow, that could come in handy. So, extra money in your pocket, millions of new jobs over the next decadehow could all of this come just from changing the tax code? Well, let me explain. You see, the current codetaking up loads of shelf space and filled with paragraphs like the one I just readis hardly a code at all. It's a hodgepodge of special favors, a product of the great Washington taffy-pull: the favor-seeking and influence peddling. So, it's unfair, yes. But even worse, all this special privilege makes the code the single biggest obstacle to economic growth in our nation today. That's because it thwarts the very people who create wealth and generate new jobs, the people who take a risk, go out on their own with a bright idea and start a new business, those darers and dreamers we call entrepreneurs. But to get their businesses up and running these entrepreneurs need capitalseed money. And many potential investors aren't interested in helping the entrepreneurs precisely because the tax code makes it far more profitable to divert their money into nonproductive tax shelters. Because of these sheltersthe fancy schemes and fast angles protected and encouraged by the law-there's less investment in the new products and services offered by the entrepreneurs, products and services that would help the consumer and stimulate growth. So, when you get down to it, the tax shelters aren't really just a break for a lucky few; they're a drag on the whole national economy and a form of hidden taxation on us all. This new bill would change all this. As that pioneer of economic growth, George Gilder, wrote recently in the Wall Street Journal: The new bill would shift the balance of power to productive enterprises, from "the owners of land to the improvers of it, from the experts in sheltering money to the experts in sheltering people, from the structuring of deals to the development of structures." Right now the Senate has before it an excellent bill framed by Senators Packwood and Long of the Senate Finance Committee and pushed hard by Majority Leader Bob Dole. If we can get that bill adopted, if we can stop the Washington lobbyists from loading it up with the bells and whistles of special privilege, we hope to get the House of Representatives to agree to it in legislative conference. And that means that I could sign that bill by Labor Day. What a way to end the summer. Bipartisanship-Democrats and Republicans pulling together. But we need your help. You know, there's a story about the candidate for public office who was once asked why he didn't win the election. "A shortage of votes," he replied. Well, that's not as silly as it sounds. I hope each of you will help us out. I hope that you'll join me in supporting tax reform and the booming economic growth that will come with it. Until next week, thanks again for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today we celebrate Flag Day, the birthday of our Stars and Stripes. As we think back over the history of our nation's flag, we remember that the story of its early years was often one of hardship and trials, sometimes a fight for simple survival. Such is the story behind our Star-Spangled Banner. It was 2 years into the War of 1812, and America seemed to be teetering on the edge of defeat. The British had already taken our Capital and burned the White House. Baltimore was the next target in a grand design to divide our forces and crush this newly independent nation of upstart colonies. All that stood between the British and Baltimore were the guns of Fort McHenry, blocking their entry into Baltimore Harbor. The British bombardment lasted for 25 hours. Through the dark hours of the night, the rockets fired and the bombs exploded. And a young American patriot named Key, held captive aboard a British ship, watched anxiously for some proof, some sign, that liberty would prevail. You can imagine his joy when the next morning, in the dawn's early light, he looked out and saw the banner still flyinga little tattered and torn, but still flying proudly above the ramparts. Fort McHenry and the brave men manning it had withstood the assault. Baltimore was saved. The United States, this great experiment in human freedom, as George Washington described it, would endure. Thinking back to those times, one realizes that our democracy is so strong because it was forged in the fires of adversity. In those dark days of the war, it must have been easy to give in to despair. But our forefathers were motivated by a cause beyond themselves. From the harsh winter of Valley Forge to the blazing night above Fort McHenry, those patriot soldiers were sustained by the ideals of human freedom. Through the hardships and the setbacks, they kept their eyes on that ideal and purpose, just as through the smoke of battle they kept a lookout for the flag. For with the birth of our nation, the cause of human freedom had become forever tied to that flag and its survival. As the American Republic grew and prospered and new stars were added to the flag, the ideal of freedom grew and prospered. From the rolling hills of Kentucky to the shores of California to the Sea of Tranquility on the Moon, our pioneers carried our flag before them, a symbol of the indomitable spirit of a free people. And let us never forget that in honoring our flag, we honor the American men and women who have courageously fought and died for it over the last 200 years, patriots who set an ideal above any consideration of self. Our flag flies free today because of their sacrifice. And I hope you all will join Nancy and me and millions of other Americans at 7 o'clock this evening, eastern daylight time, when we pause a few minutes to say the Pledge of Allegiance. Though separated by many miles, we will be together in our thoughts. These anniversaries remind us that the great American experiment in freedom and democracy has really just begun. They remind us of the terrible hardships our forefathers willingly endured for their beliefs. And they challenge us to match that greatness of spirit in our own time, and I know we will. We are, after all, the land of the free and the home of the brave. If we ask ourselves what has held our nation together, what has given it the strength to endure and the spirit to achieve, we find the answer in our families and those basic family values of work, hope, charity, faith, and love. So, it's appropriate that this year Father's Day falls on the same weekend as Flag Day, for in commemorating fatherhood, we're also expressing a basic truth about America. What does fatherhood mean today in America? I guess the same as it always has. Fatherhood can sometimes be walking the floor at midnight with a baby that can't sleep. More likely, fatherhood is repairing a bicycle wheel for the umpteenth time, knowing that it won't last the afternoon. Fatherhood is guiding a youth through the wilderness of adolescence toward adulthood. Fatherhood is holding tight when all seems to be falling apart; and it's letting go when it is time to part. Fatherhood is long hours at the blast furnace or in the fields, behind the wheel or in front of a computer screen, working a 12-hour shift or doing a 6-month tour of duty. It's giving one's all, from the break of day to its end, on the job, in the house, but most of all in the heart. Now, if you are thinking, "Look who's talkinghe's a father himself." Well, that's right, but on today I think we could all rememberthis weekend, at leastthat every father is also a son. So, on this day for fathers, we, too, say thanks to America's dadsfor the labor and legacy of our families and our freedoms. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week Chief Justice Warren Burger stepped down from the Supreme Court to devote his time fully to the upcoming bicentennial celebrations of our Constitution. It is fitting that Justice Burger's distinguished career of service to country and the law will be capped by honoring the legal document that's the very foundation of our Republic. Today all America salutes Justice Burger and thanks him for his devotion to this country. I have nominated Justice Rehnquist, whose distinguished service on the Court is also widely recognized, as the next Chief Justice. He's been a consistent model of fairness and an articulate spokesman for straightforward interpretations of the Constitution. And I've selected Judge Antonin Scalia, one of our most gifted legal minds, to fill the vacancy. Two men better qualified for their positions would be hard to find, and I hope the Senate will move quickly to confirm their nominations. Justice Rehnquist and Judge Scalia are representative of the high caliber of our Federal court appointments. I have considered it a primary duty to appoint men and women, such as Sandra Day O'Connor, of proven abilities and the finest character to the Federal courts. And I think we have a proud record to show for it. In fact, during the campaigns of 1980 and '84, I spoke often of the distressing loss of faith by the American people in their criminal justice system. It seemed to many of us that the scales of justice had become seriously unbalanced, making it difficult to arrest criminals and harder and harder to convict them. Let me give you an example: Two narcotics agents in California had a warrant to search the home of a couple they suspected were pushing heroin. They didn't find anything at first, and were just about to give up, when one of the agents, on a hunch, went back to the baby's crib. There, stashed inside the baby's diapers, was the heroin. But in a hearing for possession, the judge threw the case out of court on the grounds that the baby's constitutional rights had been violated. So, on the crime issue and a whole host of other issues, we've sought to appoint judges who look at the law as something to be honored, respected, and interpreted according to legislative intent, not whim or ideology. One other basic principle guides us: We nominate only those with high qualifications. Our selection for the Court of Appeals, Daniel A. Manion, is such a nominee. He has substantial litigation experience and a reputation for integrity; even opponents from his days in the Indiana Senate attest to his character and ability. And the American Bar Association has declared him fully qualified to be a Federal judge. Nevertheless, partisanship in the Senate has pushed fair play by the boards, which is why I've sent a letter to the Senate expressing my strong opinion about the prerogative of the President to make qualified appointments to the Federal judiciary and what I feel has been the partisan use of the confirmation process. Some are doing just about everything they can think of to prevent Daniel Manion's confirmation. Believe it or not, they've even tried to make a major issue of a few typographical errors in several of his briefs and the fact that he practices law in .a small town. Dan Manion is a fine lawyer. Father Theodore Hesburgh, the president of Notre Dame, where Dan Manion was an undergraduate, has strongly endorsed his nomination. I know him to be a person who has the ability and determination to become the kind of judge the American people want in the Federal courts; one who believes in the rule of law, who reveres the Constitution, and whose sense of fairness and justice is above reproach. Let's be honest. The real objection to Dan Manion is that he doesn't conform to the liberal ideology of some Senators. In fact, one Senator blurted out as much in the confirmation hearing. "I think you're a decent and honorable man," he said to Dan Manion, "but I do not think I can vote for you because of your political views." Well, I believe the Senate should consider only a nominee's qualifications and character, not his political views. Now, I would welcome a national debate on those political views and how we're going to keep up the attack on this nation's crime problem. In the meantime, however, I intend to keep right on appointing tough, responsible judges to the courts. And I would hope that the Senate would get to work and confirm Daniel Manion to the U.S. Court of Appeals. It's the right thing to do. He's the kind of judge American people want, and I think they know it. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This coming week we'll celebrate the Fourth of July and the birthday of the Statue of Liberty, dedicated one century ago this year. Nancy and I will be in New York Harbor for the event, watching fireworks light the sky over the grand old lady who welcomes so many millions of immigrants to our shores. But I've often thought that Lady Liberty also represents another symbol of our openness to the rest of the world. With the ships plying the waters of New York Harbor beneath her, she reminds us of the enormous extent of our trade with other nations of the world. Now, I know that if I were to ask most of you how you like to spend your Saturdays in the summertime, sitting down for a nice, long discussion of international trade wouldn't be at the top of the list. But believe me, none of us can or should be bored with this issue. Our nation's economic health, your well-being and that of your family's really is at stake. That's because international trade is one of those issues that politicians find an unending source of temptation. Like a 5-cent cigar or a chicken in every pot, demanding high tariffs or import restrictions is a familiar bit of flimflammery in American politics. But cliches and demagoguery aside, the truth is these trade restrictions badly hurt economic growth. You see, trade barriers and protectionism only put off the inevitable. Sooner or later, economic reality intrudes, and industries protected by the Government face a new and unexpected form of competition. It may be a better product, a more efficient manufacturing technique, or a new foreign or domestic competitor. By this time, of course, the protected industry is so listless and its competitive instincts so atrophied that it can't stand up to the competition. And that, my friends, is when the factories shut down and the unemployment lines start. We had an excellent example of this in our own history during the Great Depression. Most of you are too young to remember this, but not long after the stock market crash of 1929, the Congress passed something called the Smoot-Hawley tariff. Many economists believe it was one of the worst blows ever to our economy. By crippling free and fair trade with other nations, it internationalized the Depression. It also helped shut off America's export market, eliminating many jobs here at home and driving the Depression even deeper. Well, since World War II, the nations of the world showed they learned at least part of their lesson. They organized the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, to promote free trade. It hasn't all been easy going, however. Sometimes foreign governments adopt unfair tariffs or quotas and subsidize their own industries or take other actions that give firms an unfair competitive edge over our own businesses. On those occasions, it's been very important for the United States to respond effectively, and our administration hasn't hesitated to act quickly and decisively. And in September, with more GATT talks coining up once again, it's going to be very important for the United States to make clear our commitment that unfair foreign competition cannot be allowed to put American workers in businesses at an unfair disadvantage. But I think you all know the inherent danger here. A foreign government raises an unfair barrier; the United States Government is forced to respond. Then the foreign government retaliates; then we respond, and so on. The pattern is exactly the one you see in those pie fights in the old Hollywood comedies: Everything and everybody just gets messier and messier. The difference here is that it's not funny. It's tragic. Protectionism becomes destructionism; it costs jobs. And that's why I wanted to talk with you today about some legislation that the Congress now has before it that is a throwback to the old protectionist days. It greatly cuts down my flexibility as President to bargain with and pressure foreign governments into reducing trade barriers. While this legislation is still pending before the Senate, it has already passed the House of Representatives. So, the danger is approaching. Should this bill become law, foreign governments would respond, and soon a vicious cycle of trade barriers would be jeopardizing our hard-won economic prosperity. Yes, the politicians are back at it in Washington. And should this unacceptable legislation continue to move through the Congress, I'll need your help in sending them a message. So, please consider our talk today an early warning signal on free and fair trade, a jobs and growth alert. And stand by, I may need your help in resisting protectionist barriers that would hinder economic growth and cost America jobs. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We've had an exciting Fourth of July, celebrating that beautiful lady, who for a hundred years now has stood watch over New York Harbor and this blessed and free land of ours. Newspaper accounts of that first celebration in 1886 tell of city streets spilling over with crowds, the harbor packed with vessels, great and small. "It seemed to have rained brass bands during the night," they said. "It was like a hundred Fourths of July broke loose to exalt her name, Liberty." Well, I dare say we outdid them this time. In celebrating the statue, we're celebrating a great gift, the gift of one man with a vision, Frederic Bartholdi, who dedicated more than 20 years of his life to its realization. It was also the gift of one people who loved liberty to their brothers across the ocean, because all people who love liberty are truly brothers. Most of all, it was a gift not of governments, but of people, donating from their private savings, a gift of free people, giving freely. And isn't that appropriate for a statue dedicated to individual liberty? In this era of big government, we sometimes forget that many of our proudest achievements as a nation came not through government, but through private citizens, individuals whose genius and generosity flourished in this climate of freedom. Some people look to the source of the American miracle in our abundant natural resources, others in the accident of history. But if you want to know the secret, you don't have to look any farther than that grand lady standing in New York Harbor. Freedom is the key. Freedom is what allowed individuals to make America great. Between the second and fourth of July, some 27,000 new Americans were sworn in across this country. Many of you saw the televised ceremony on Ellis Island. In these events, America makes a solemn bond with its new citizens and renews the promise to all that here is a refuge from oppression, here is a place where freedom and opportunity reign. The immigrant story has been repeated millions of times, stories such as that of one man who passed through Ellis Island years ago. A 15-year-old Italian immigrant who spoke not a word of English. Little did he imagine that his son, Antonin Scalia, would be appointed to the highest court in the land, there to uphold and protect our Constitution, the guardian of all our freedoms. Just one of many stories that shows us that every time we swear in a new citizen, America is rededicating herself to the cause of human liberty. In these last couple of weeks we have rededicated ourselves to liberty in other important ways, too. Recently, the Congress has passed two landmark pieces of legislation that I'm sure put a smile on the face of our Statue of Liberty. The first was our historic effort to reform our nation's tax code, to make it simpler and fairer, to bring tax rates down, and to give families a long-overdue break. Throughout human history, taxes have been one of the foremost ways that governments intrude on the rights of citizens. In fact, as we all learned in school, our democratic American Revolution began with a tax revolt. Our forefathers knew that if you bind up a man's economic life with taxes, tariffs, and regulations, you deprive him of some of his most basic civil rights. They have a wonderful phrase describing economic liberty in the Declaration of Independence. They call it "the pursuit of happiness." Well, with tax reform, we're going to make that pursuit a lot easier for all Americans. The other landmark legislation was the vote in the House to join the Senate in approving aid to the prodemocratic freedom fighters in Nicaragua. I feel proud that on this Independence Day weekend, America has embraced these brave men and their independent struggle. Just as the French came to the aid of our revolution, so today we're extending a helping hand to those who fight against tyranny and for democracy. You know, during the inaugural celebration of the Statue of Liberty, Grover Cleveland, standing before the statue, made a solemn pledge for America: "We will not forget that liberty has here made her home," he said. America will keep her flame alive, and it will become "a stream of light that shall pierce the darkness of man's oppression until liberty enlightens the world." After the events of these last few days, you just have to believe that her flame burns even brighter, a comfort, hope, and inspiration to all those the world over who still suffer oppressionin the beautiful words of the poem inscribed on the statue's base: "All those still yearning to breathe free." Till next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: One week ago we showed the world what it means to love liberty. The spectacular celebration of our independence and Miss Liberty's centennial will likely be described by historians as a reflection of the good will, joy, and confidence so apparent in our country. Instead of focusing on problems, America's looking for solutions. Instead of fretting about this or that shortcoming, we're out creating, building, and making things better. Instead of lamenting dangers, we're putting our best minds to work trying to find ways of making this a safer, more secure world. And that's what I want to talk with you about today: our major research effort called the Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, which is aimed at ridding this planet of the threat of nuclear annihilation. Back in 1983 we enlisted some of America's top scientists and set in motion a research program to see if we could find a way to defend mankind against ballistic missiles, an antimissile shield, if you will. Our SDI research is searching out a more effective, safe, and moral way to prevent wara deterrence based on defenses which threaten no one, a deterrence that will be viewed as a success not by the threat of deadly retaliation but, instead, by its ability to protect. And never was a purely defensive system so sorely needed. Since the early 1970's the Soviet Union has been racing forward in a vast and continuing military buildup, including the expansion of their offensive nuclear arsenal and an intense effort to develop their own strategic defense. And as described in a publication issued last October by our State and Defense Departments, the Soviets also have deployed the world's only antiballistic missile system. These Soviet strategic defense programs have been termed "Red Shield" in an article in this month's Reader's Digest. They were confirmed in an open letter issued last month by a group of 30 former Soviet scientists now living in the United States. In stark contrast, we are defenseless against the most dangerous weapons in the history of mankind. Isn't it time to put our survival back under our own control? Our search for an effective defense is a key part of a three-pronged response to the Soviet threat. We also have been moving ahead to modernize our strategic forces and, simultaneously, to reach fair and verifiable arms reduction agreements with the Soviet Union. The Soviets have yet to agree to arms reduction despite the strenuous efforts of several U.S. administrations. However, our SDI research to make nuclear missiles less effective also makes these missiles more negotiable. And when we talk about negotiations, let's be clear: Our SDI research is not a bargaining chip. It's the number of offensive nuclear missiles that need to be reduced, not the effort to find a way to defend mankind against these deadly missiles. And reliable defenses could also serve as insurance against cheating or breaking out of an arms reduction agreement. All this makes it evermore important to keep our strategic defense research moving forward. We have set up a well-managed program which, in just over 3 years, has already accomplished much. Even faster progress than expected has been made in developing the system's "eyes"scientists call them sensorsand its "brains," which guide an interceptor toward its target, and methods of stopping incoming missiles, especially with nonnuclear means. Technological advances now permit us to detect and track an aggressor's missiles in early flight. It is in this boost phase that missiles must be intercepted and knocked out to achieve the protection we're looking for. There have been some major achievements in the diplomatic field as well. Great Britain, West Germany, and Israel have signed agreements to participate in the research, and talks with other major allies are expected. Nothing of great value, of course, comes cheap. But a defensive system which can protect us and allies against all ballistic missiles, nuclear or conventional, is a prudent investment. I'm sorry to say, however, that some Members of Congress would take a shortsighted course, deeply cutting the funds needed to carry out this vital program. So, it's imperative your voice is heard. In the weeks ahead, it would be a tragedy to permit the budget pressures of today to destroy this vital research program and undercut our chances for a safer and more secure tomorrow. President Eisenhower once said, "The future will belong, not to the fainthearted, but to those who believe in it and prepare for it." I agree with that, and I know you do, too. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: At this moment, just two blocks from the White House, more than 1,000 relatives of the men still missing from the Vietnam war are gathered for the 17th annual meeting of the National League of Families. Like the story of their loved ones in Vietnam, their story, too, is one of heroism. Only a few short years ago, there was little interest and less hope here in Washington about the POW/MIA issue. The matter was given little priority by the intelligence community. The national media featured only occasional reports, and there were no international negotiations. The Governments of Vietnam and Laos believed America was no longer really interested in her lost sons. All of this now has dramatically changed. Today our intelligence is far better than it was in the past. The media, the government, and all of America are concerned. And today we're engaged in negotiations with both Vietnam and Laos-negotiations that have helped return more of our men to their families than at any time since the end of the war. These men died in battle for their country, and it's only right and fitting that they finally rest now in the Nation they loved so dearly and for which they so willingly sacrificed. So, there have been steps forward, but this doesn't mean that there still isn't need for more progress, much more progress. In Laos our joint crash-site evacuations are bringing results, but many questions still remain. I'm glad to report that the Lao Government has pledged to answer these questions, and I look forward to an improving relationship and the acceleration of our joint efforts. I also want to express appreciation for the increasing cooperation of the Government of Vietnam in the humanitarian quest. Other differences must not be allowed to interfere in our effort to resolve this issue. We must continue to go forward. It's the only responsible path, and it is in the interest of both our peoples. There are a number of people to thank for what has been accomplished. Believe me, we could not have come this far without the critical bipartisan support of our friends in Congress. The Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee has held difficult hearings to pursue whether a factual basis exists for many of the public claims about our missing men. The Asian and Pacific Affairs Subcommittee of the House of Representatives has played a most responsible role, as have other longtime advocates of this issue in both Houses. There are others who also need to be thanked. And so, to our national veterans organizations and especially our Vietnam veterans, I want to extend my gratitude for your support of this administration's efforts and those of the National League of Families. And to all the others in this administration, including the many Vietnam veterans and returned POW's interviewing in the refugee camps in Southeast Asia, those in the identification lab in Hawaii, in the Defense Intelligence Agency in Washington, and across the negotiating table in Hanoi, you have my profound thanks for undertaking and staying with this most exacting and difficult task. But finally, there is that one group that deserves our thanks most of allthe real heroes in this: the fathers and mothers, the wives, the sons and daughters, and other relatives of our POW's and MIA's. They never gave up. They never stopped loving. And on behalf of every American, I want to promise each of them today: We mean to end your heartache and uncertainty. We will vigorously pursue the answers you seek and deserve. We will apply every resource we can to achieve the fullest possible accounting of your relatives still missing in Southeast Asia. This is, of course, a difficult and emotional issue. It's no secret there are those who want to promise easy solutions or even exploit this issue for selfish reasons. But we have made progress. And the truth is we will continue to make progress as long as we stick with the facts and keep faith with each other and demonstrate the unity of purpose so fundamental to our cause. All Americans, after all, have a common goal in this endeavor: Freedom for any prisoner who may still be held in Southeast Asia and justice for all of the families who've worked so long to resolve the fate of our POW's and MIA's in Vietnam. They were our loved ones and our fellow Americans; and they were, I'm certain time will tell, part of a noble cause and history's heroes. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I hope you're relaxed and in a cool place, because I want to start this Saturday afternoon off talking about a hot topic: the economy. To begin with, the most recent statistics show that the economy grew much faster in 1985 and the beginning of this year than we previously thought. Gross national product figures for real growth in '85 were revised up almost a full point, and growth in the first quarter of '86 was a strong 3.8 percent. Now, that's pretty good, especially compared to the performance of some of our major trading partners, such as Germany and Japan, which actually saw their gross national products shrink in the first quarter. The news on inflation continues to be even better than our hopes. Consumer prices actually fell during the first half of this year, giving us the lowest rate of inflation in more than 30 years. All this adds up to an economic expansion which is stronger than we originally thought and is now one of the longest peacetime expansions in half a century. In many other ways, too, our economy is showing itself strong and ready for more growth. Sales are up. Real disposable incomethat's the part of your paycheck you get to keep after taxesis up a hefty 7.2 percent. Housing investment is up. Interest rates are falling. And the stock market is up an incredible 30 percent in just 1 year. Those people in the market are investing in a big way in America's future. As lower oil prices work their way through the economy and as the lower dollar improves U.S. sales abroad, things will look even better. But not all the news was as good as we'd hoped: Some of the figures indicate slower second quarter growth than expected. Now, you won't be surprised to hear that the doom and gloom artists, who said this current expansion could never happen, have been painting dark pictures and saying that our expansion may be over. Well, believe me, they couldn't be more off the mark. The figure they point to is last quarter's real gross national product growth rate of plus 1.1 percent. And although this figure will almost certainly be revised, just as the previous figures were, there's no gain-saying that it's lower than we wished. The fact is, there are some temporary factors that slowed the growth in our economy for a short time. Part of the problem is the slow and even negative growth I mentioned earlier in our major industrialized trading partners. If they're growing slower than we are, they simply can't afford to buy as much from us, and that hurts our economy, too. Also, important industries in some regions of the country are struggling with special problems. I'm thinking especially of oil, agriculture, steel, and textiles. The workers and families in those troubled industries are always on my mind, and that's all the more reason I'm determined to keep this economy moving, creating jobs and opportunity, so as to ease as much as possible those sometimes unavoidable adjustments. But some of the slower growth we saw last quarter was actually the result of some very good news on the horizon, and that's the tax reform bill. The uncertainty that was an unavoidable part of the legislative process on the Hill [bill] has likely caused some businesses to hesitate with their investment and other economic decisions. When the tax bill is finalized and businessmen and venture capitalists know the new ground rules, then we can expect business to really start moving. Some people, too, are probably postponing realizing income until the more favorable rates of tax reform come into effect. To give an example: If you heard there was a department store sale on Saturday, would you rush to the store on Friday and make a lot of purchases, or would you wait till Saturday? Well, likewise, our economy is waiting for tax reform's lower rates. In that sense, this temporary, slower growth we're experiencing is a sign of anticipation about the future and better times to come. When we came into office on a hot summer daywell, we didn't come into office on a hot summer daythe economy had about as much energy as a hound dog on a hot summer day. Some people said that we'd never get it on its feet again. Well, we cut tax rates nearly 25 percent across the board and squashed inflation, and we let loose one of the longest peacetime expansions ever. Our robust economy has created over 10 million jobs since the recovery beganmore than Western Europe and Japan combined. Imagine, then, the effect of tax reform's dramatic tax rate cuts, coming as they will on top of an economy that is fit and healthy and ready for action. So, don't pay too much attention to those gloom artists. America's economy is strong, our future bright. With tax reform lighting our heels in the coming year, well, it will give new meaning to the phrase: You ain't seen nothin' yet! Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's sometimes said that if you put three economists together in a room and ask them a question, you're liable to get more than three answers. It's true, economists don't often agree. But there is one issue on which almost all responsible economists, whatever their political persuasion, are unanimous. They agree that free and fair trade brings growth and opportunity and creates jobs. And they all warn that high trade barriers, what is often called protectionism, undermines economic growth and destroys jobs. I don't call it protectionism; I call it destructionism. That's why our motto is: free and fair trade with free and fair traders. Now, we've seen that governments sometimes don't play by the rules. They keep exports out of subsidyor subsidize, I should say, industries, giving them an unfair advantage. Well, our patience with unfair trade isn't endless, and we're taking action to bring other nations back in line to ensure that free trade remains fair trade. We're aggressively using existing trade laws to pry open foreign markets and force others to play by the rules. This week, for instance, we signed a breakthrough trade agreement that'll open up Japanese markets to U.S. semiconductors and prevent the Japanese from dumping semiconductors in our markets. And last month, after intensive negotiations in response to a deadline I set, the European Community agreed to keep its market open to U.S. farm exports. These agreements are examples of positive, result-oriented trade action. Instead of closing markets at home, we've opened markets to U.S. products abroad, thus helping to create more American jobs. Instead of erecting destructionist import barriers, we're tearing down foreign barriers to make trade freer and fairer for all. Because, believe me, when Americans are competing on a level playing field, they can outproduce and outsell anyone, anywhere in the world. We've been tough with those nations who've been unfair in their trading practices, and that toughness has produced results. And with hard-pressed industries like textiles and apparel that have gone through difficult times, we've taken strong action to help. We renegotiated agreements with Taiwan and Hong Kong over a year early to expand product coverage and tighten controls of imports from those countries. We are pursuing negotiations with Korea to tighten restraints on their exports to us and improve opportunities for our producers in their market. And just this week we completed a tough, new multifiber arrangement with our trading partners that will include products not previously covered and which gives us tools to prevent damaging import surges. This is result-oriented action. What doesn't bring results is the sort of destructionist legislation now before the House of Representatives. Next week the House will vote on whether to override my veto of a textile trade bill, and I'm hopeful this won't happen. My Council of Economic Advisers estimates this bill would cost you, the consumer, $44 billion over the next 5 years: $70,000 for every job saved, jobs that pay about $13,000 on average. Even worse, these temporarily protected jobs would be more than offset by the loss of thousands of other jobsjobs in retail, marketing, and finance and jobs directly related to importing, such as dockworkers and transportation workers. And then there are all those who would be thrown out of work as we began to feel the effects of foreign retaliation, and you can bet there would be retaliation. I'm thinking, especially, of our struggling agricultural sector and its many connected industries. At a time when we're trying to increase agricultural exports, let's remember that some of the first victims of retaliation would be our farmerskicking them when they're already down. So, our trade policy remains a positive one that will not play off one region against another or one American worker against another, doing grievous damage to the industries involved. In trying to help workers in ailing industries, we must be careful that the cure is not worse than the disease, like the infamous Smoot-Hawley tariffs that deepened and prolonged the Great Depression. The best way to help is with the progrowth policies of free and fair trade that have created more than 10 million new jobs in the last 3 1/2 years. In the last 7 months 1,650,000 people have found jobs in the United States. There's more than Europe and Japan combined in the last 10 years. And by the way, recently released figures show the leading economic indicators are up and unemployment has dropped to 6.8 percent. You know, the Europeans talk about the American miracle of economic growth and job creation. Well, I'm going to do everything I can to keep that miracle of hope alive, creating jobs and opportunities for all Americans. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Shakespeare's reminder that "the world is full of ornament" and the "outward shows" are "least themselves" has always had a special relevance for the political world, but it was especially so last week here in Washington . The United States Senate began hearings on the nominations of William Rehnquist and Antonin Scalia, men I've named to the position of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and Associate Justice of the Court. These hearings are a healthy process, mandated by the Constitution. Even though they produce a lot of outward show and ornament, they provide the American people with an opportunity to evaluate for themselves the quality of a President's appointments. To be sure, there were many serious allegations by political opponents of Justice Rehnquist and Judge Scalia. One Democratic Senator announced he would vote against Justice Rehnquist even before the hearings started. There were dark hints about what might be found in documents Judge Rehnquist wrote while a Justice Department official many years ago. To deal with these unfounded charges, I took the unusual step of permitting the Senate committee to see the documents themselves. Of course, there was nothing there but legal analyses and other routine communications. The hysterical charges of coverup and stonewalling were revealed for what they were: political posturing. I was sorry to have to release these documents, but Supreme Court nominations are so important that I did not want my nominees to enter upon their responsibilities under any cloud. And so, I was delighted that when all was said and done our nominees emerged unscathed from last week's hearings. Justice Rehnquist, recognized even during his early years as a brilliant mind, graduated first in his class from Stanford Law School. He clerked for the Supreme Court, an early mark of distinction in any legal career. He then returned to Arizona to practice law, coming back to Washington some years later to serve as an Assistant Attorney General in the Department of Justice. Most important, for the past 15 years he has served as a Justice of the Supreme Court with extraordinary diligence and craftsmanship. His opinions are renowned for their clarity of reasoning and precision of expression. And when his colleagues on the Supreme Court learned that I would nominate Justice Rehnquist to preside as Chief Justice, they were unanimous in expressing pleasure and approval. It's hard to imagine higher praise for anyone in the legal profession than that. Turning to Judge Antonin Scalia, he's regarded in the legal profession as a superb jurist, a first-class intellect, and a warm and persuasive person. He has served in the Department of Justice, taught law at the University of Chicago and the University of Virginia, and served since 1982 as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals here in the District of Columbia. The American Bar Association gave Judge Scalia, as they gave Justice Rehnquist, their highest rating. I might add that as the father of nine children Judge Scalia holds family values in high esteem. And I was especially delighted with his nomination, because Judge Scalia is the first Italian-American in history to be named to the Supreme Court. Beyond their undoubted legal qualifications, Justice Rehnquist and Judge Scalia embody a certain approach to the law, an approach that as your President I consider it my duty to endorse, indeed to insist upon. The background here is important. You see, during the last few election campaigns, one of the principal points I made to the American people was the need for a real change in the makeup of the Federal judiciary. I pointed out that too many judges were taking upon themselves the prerogatives of elected officials. Instead of interpreting the law according to the intent of the Constitution and the Congress, they were simply using the courts to strike down laws that displeased them politically or philosophically. I argued the need for judges who would interpret law, not make it. The people, through their elected representatives, make our laws; and the people deserve to have these laws enforced as they were written. Of course this upsets those who disagree with me politically, and I have a lurking suspicion that politics had more than a little to do with some of the tactics used against Justice Rehnquist. But I'm confident that, mindful of their superb legal qualifications, the Senate will confirm Justice Rehnquist and Judge Scalia. And I can assure you: We will appoint more judges like them to the Federal bench. If I may quote Shakespeare again now that the political commotion of the confirmation hearings is over: "All's well that ends well." Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you\par
My fellow Americans: When I ran for the Presidency in 1980, I made a solemn commitment to do all in my power to restore to our country a national defense second to none. In that election, and again in 1984, the American people, I believe, gave me a mandate to do precisely that. Today, however, that commitment and many of the great gains we've made together these past 5 years have been placed in jeopardy by actions taken in the House of Representatives. Let me outline for you a few of the decisions which, if permitted to stand, would pull the rug out from under our arms negotiators in Geneva and, eventually, imperil the national security of the United States. First, the House voted to deny the U.S. Air Force the right even to test our small antisatellite weapon called ASAT. The ASAT is designed to destroy, in the event of a conflict, Soviet military satellites that would guide Russian bombers and missiles to American targets. It is a defensive weapon built to help protect the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces at home and abroad. It's inexplicable to me how the House could deny us the right to even test this weapon when a killer satellite weapon has long been deployed inside the Soviet Union. Second, the House voted to halt any nuclear test larger than a single kiloton. If that vote is permitted to stand, all testing to maintain the safety, credibility, and reliability of the U.S. strategic deterrent would come to an end. Has the majority of the House forgotten history? In 1958 the United States agreed to a similar moratorium. Three years later the Soviets unilaterally smashed that moratorium with the largest series of nuclear tests in history. It took us almost a decade to discover what the Soviets had learned from those tests, prepared in secret even as the United States relied upon a Soviet promise. We must not make the same mistake again. Third, the House, by a single vote, refused to fund the chemical weapons we requested. If that vote is permitted to stand, the House will have increased the probability these dreadful weapons will one day be used. History has taught repeatedly that the best deterrent to such awful weapons is when both sides, not just one side, possess them. Hitler did not use his terrible gas weapons against the allies for a single reasonhe feared retaliation by the allies with the same kind of weapon. Fourth, the House voted to severely slash our request for the Strategic Defense Initiative. But SDI is not the onlyor not only, I should say, the great hope of this country for finding a way out of the prison of mutual terror, it is an idea that helped bring the Soviets back to the negotiating table at Geneva. To gravely underfund SDI is to place in jeopardy all our hopes for arms reduction. It is to leave America indefinitely naked to missile attack, whether by accident or design. These radical cuts in SDI would permit the Soviet Union, which has been working on strategic defense for decades, to make strides at the expense of the United States. Finally, the House voted to deny us any funds to move beyond the limits of SALT II, even though SALT II was never ratified, even though the Soviet Union has violated its terms. What message is received in Moscow when a majority of the House votes to force its own country to strictly observe an expired and unratified treaty the Soviet Union has itself undercut? Beyond this, the House voted to cut away at several of the programs that are at the heart of this nation's strategic deterrent-the land-based MX missile, the Trident submarine, and the advanced cruise missile. Soviet arms negotiators must be mystified today that U.S. legislators would give away in Washington what they have been unable to win at Geneva. Soviet military planners must be astonished at the blows the House delivered this week to America's national defense. Finally, the House mandated that 10 percent of countless military contracts be awarded without competition on the basis of a quota for certain businessesand this they call military reform. It's a step in the wrong direction. Make no mistake, the House defense bill is a reckless assault upon the national defense of the United States. It threatens our hopes for arms control and moves us back toward an era in policies which the American people emphatically rejected in the last two national elections. While it is my custom not to say whether I will veto a bill until it reaches my desk, if the defense budget arrives in anything like the present form, it will be vetoed and national security will be the issue in 1986. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Good news for this hot summer day: Tax reform is on its way toward final victory in the Congress. To return for the moment to my old role as a radio sportscaster: It's the bottom of the ninth, and tax reform is rounding third and heading home. We're about to score the winning run, not just of the game but of the whole season. Still, we should remember, as Yogi Berra once said: "The game isn't over till it's over." Two-and-a-half years ago, I instructed the Treasury Department to begin work on a revolutionary overhaul of our tax system that would make it fairer and simpler and stimulate growth by lowering tax rates. It's been a long, arduous struggle. Each step of the way a chorus of pessimists predicted failure: It would never get by the special interests. Tax reform, they said, stood about as much chance as a long-tailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs. Well, they forgot one thing: America didn't become great being pessimistic and cynical. America is built on a can-do spirit that sees every obstacle as a challenge, every problem as an opportunity. Thanks to the support of the American people, tax reform has gained steadily in popularity and momentum, powering past the opposition and on to victory in both Houses of Congress. Now, just last week the Senate-House conference committee approved an agreement that reconciles the Senate and House versions. We want to commend Chairmen Packwood and Rostenkowski for this great achievement. The next step is final approvalan up or down vote in both Houses. There is absolutely no reason for any further delay, which only causes uncertainty and puts a damper on investment and economic growth. I urge Congress, when it reconvenes in September, to act promptly and make tax reform the law of the land. Let me give you a few of the highlights of this revolutionary tax overhaul. First of all, the present 14-rate structure will be collapsed into only 2, and over 80 percent of the American people will pay the lower rate of only 15 percent or will pay no taxes at all. The top individual and corporate rates will also be slashed, while many special tax breaks will be closed. All of this will draw America's investment money out from under the tax shelters and back into the productive economy where it belongs. And we've indexed taxes to make sure inflation never again pushes Americans into higher tax brackets. Families will get a long overdue break through increases in the standard deduction and personal exemption. And millions of working poor will be completely dropped from the tax roles, making this one of the best antipoverty programs this country has ever seen. We will no longer use the tax code to make economic and social policy. Instead, we're going to let market forces shape our economy into a sleek and efficient powerhouse of growth. With tax reform, America will have the lowest marginal rates and the most modern tax code in the industrialized worldone that encourages risk-taking, innovation, and that old American spirit of enterprise. We will be refueling the American growth economy with the kind of incentives that have helped create record numbers of new businesses and over 10 1/2 million jobs in 44 months. But America won't be able to grow and prosper indefinitely if the rest of the world economy is dragging behind. We're already beginning to see the slowing effects on our own economy of sluggish world growth. Without faster growth, other countries simply can't afford to buy as many of our goods and services, and that hurts American workers. Well, tax reform is good news for them, too. A British news magazine has described it as the beginning of a tax revolution that will "stalk through the West" as our industrialized partners cut tax rates in their own countries in order to remain competitive with the American dynamo. The Europeans have called our expansion the American miracle and have talked enviously of our record of economic growth and job creation. Well, now is their opportunity to join us on the growth path, to carry this revolution of hope and opportunity around the world, and create a strong, sound, and growing world economy. Tax reform is the door to a bigger future, a future as big and hopeful and full of heart as the American dream, a future of expanding possibility and ever increasing opportunity for all Americans, indeed, for the whole world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This weekend we mark the 92d observance of Labor Day, a day when we celebrate the strong backs, keen minds, hard work, and dedication that have made America the mightiest nation on Earth. We celebrate this land of immigrants and their descendants, the men and women who came to this land in search of freedom and hope and the opportunity to make an honest wage. We honor the laborers who built our great cities brick by brick, who poured the concrete, laid the macadam, riveted the steel girders, the worker in the factory and the farmer in the field, the secretary at a desk and the trucker at the wheel of a semi hauling freight from coast to coast. And today we also celebrate good news for America's workers. We've seen 45 months of economic expansion and the creation of over 10 1/2 million jobs1.6 million in the last 7 months, 200,000 just last month alone. Employment figures have never looked better: 61.2 percent of all Americans 16 years old and up, male and female, are working. That's the highest employment ratio since they started keeping records. Because we cut taxes and squashed inflation, America's workers once again can have faith in the future. They know they'll get a fair reward for their labor and that more and more of their paycheck won't be swallowed up by big government. The Census Bureau reports that real median family income rose in 1985 for the third year in a row. Inflation is the lowest it's been in more than 20 years. And interest rates continue to drop, making home ownership possible once again for average Americansaverage-income Americans, I should say. In other words, more Americans are working, they're earning more, and their money is going farther. More good news: Economic growth is winning against poverty. In the past, big government policies of high taxes mixed with high inflation pushed millions into poverty. Well, we turned that around. Poverty has dropped for the second year in a row, as jobs and opportunity conquer dependence and hopelessness, once again proving that a growing, vibrant economy is the best antipoverty program there is. Now, some workers in some sections of the economy haven't benefited from our prosperity. I'm thinking especially of some of our farmers who, after years of government interference in agriculture, are having difficulty adjusting to a noninflationary economy. Record levels of farm supports are helping farmers weather hard times, and we're committed to helping them move to a market-oriented farm economy. Also, the changing face of industry has left some workers without jobs. Where unfair foreign trade practices is the culprit, this administration will continue to be the most aggressive ever in protecting the rights of American workers, making sure that free trade is also fair trade. Our Job Training Partnership Act has also helped over 2 million workers find new jobs. But the best answer is tax reform. By cutting tax rates we're going to rev the engines of entrepreneurship and job creation. We're raising exemptions for dependents and giving families a long-overdue break, and we're dropping millions of working poor off the income tax rolls altogether. Tax reform will be the best thing to happen to the American worker sincewell, since our tax cut in 1981. That's why I urge Congress this Labor Day to remember our responsibility to America's working men and women and waste no time passing tax reform when they return to Washington. You know, some people say it's America's natural resources that make our country so great, but the greatest resource of all is our working men and womentheir skill, hard work, guts, and determination. It's like the fellow who took some land down by a creek bottom all covered with brush and rocks. And he cleared the brush, and he hauled the rocks away. And then he started cultivating, and he planted. And finally he had a beautiful garden. He was so proud that one Sunday after the church service he asked the minister if he wouldn't come see what he'd done. So, the minister came by. And when he saw the corn that had been planted there, he said he'd never seen any corn so tall and the Lord had really blessed this land. And then he looked at some melons, and he said he'd never seen any as big as that and thank the Lord for that. And he went on praising the Lord for everything-the squash and the beans and everything else. The farmer was getting a little fidgety. Finally, he interrupted and said, "Reverend, I wish you could have seen this place when the Lord was doing it all by himself." Well, I've always liked that story because it makes an important point. God gave us this great and good land, but it's up to us to make it flourish, to preserve its freedom, and to see it grow in greatness. And this Labor Day, thanks to the American people, our country is growing stronger every minute. I just have one final thing to say: Keep it up, America. You're doing great! Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Labor Day weekend is behind us, another summer is almost past, and soon the leaves will start turning colors. But perhaps the surest sign of fall is the sight of young people heading off for their first days of school. This fall I'm glad to say the schools that our children are returning to are in many ways the best they've been in years-markedly better and still improving. Five years ago there was a widespread feeling in our country that our schools were not doing their job. That's why, in the first few months of this administration, we established a National Commission on Excellence in Education to assess the condition of American education. Sure enough, the Commission reported back that the instincts of the American people were right: Our schools were in serious trouble. They were doing so poorly, the Commission said, that if a foreign nation had done to our schools what we'd stood by and let happen, we would have considered it an act of war. That warning touched off a wave of reforms that swept through nearly every town, school district, and State capital in the countrya grassroots movement for education reform that generated more enthusiasm and more action than any amount of dollars or directives from Washington ever could have. And, as usually happens when the American people pull together, your efforts are paying off. Test scores show that students in 35 States have improved their educational performancesprogress, to be sure. And education reform is proceeding full speed ahead. Just 2 weeks ago the Nation's Governors met to offer their own proposals for carrying education reform into the nineties. Among other proposals, the Governors suggested that parents have more choice where their children go to school. If one school doesn't do the job right, let them send their children to a school that does. The Governors call their report, "Time for Results"and with no-nonsense proposals like these, you can bet they'll get results in the years to come. I think we can all expect to see a lot more action in our State capitals, right where it belongs. Let me also call attention to "First Lessons," Secretary [of Education] Bennett's fine, new report on our nation's elementary schools. With this kind of useful information, parents and teachers will be able to continue their progress in the task of fixing our schools. As our young people return to school this year, I'd like to close with a special message on something that is fundamental to success in school and throughout lifeand that is staying drug free. Over the summer, we've witnessed a growing national awareness of the waste and tragedy that always lies just one step behind drug use. When it comes to young people using drugs that tragedy is especially great. There's no better time than nowand no better place than our schoolsfor all Americans to stand up, get involved, and do something about drugs. Later this month, Nancy and Secretary Bennett will introduce a handbook for communities to use to rid schools of drugs. Just as surely as it will require the diligence of parents, teachers, and principals, beating drugs in our schools will require the involvement of neighbors, community groups, law enforcement officials, churches, and synagogues. Everyone will have to get involved. But most importantly, beating drugs will require the courage and conviction of our young people themselves. To those students who are listening today, I'd like to offer a special message: It may be a while ago now, but I can remember how tough it is sometimes being young, and when I was a kid, we didn't have all the temptations and distractions of this modern society. I know that sometimes it takes all the courage you can muster to "just say no," to go with your conscience, what you know is right, rather than with the pack. But that effort is worth it. Don't get caught up in drugs. America has a big and exciting future, an open future of expanding possibilities your parents never even dreamt ofand you can be a part of it. Like they said at the end of the movie "Back to the Future": "Where we're going, we don't need roads," just an eager heart and a clear mind. America needs you open, alert, and drug free to help make that future happen. So, I'm going to ask you a favor: Say no to drugs, and tell your friends to say no, too. Saying no isn't just important for you, it's a great opportunity for you to do something for your country. Each time you say no to drugs, you'll be helping America beat one of the most serious challenges we've ever faced. And believe me, you'll be a hero in my book. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Our country, since the close of the Second World War, has been a champion of free commerce between nations. Free trade has served us well, fueling economic growth and job creation across our land. However, as we've spoken about before, it's imperative that trade between nations be fair as well as free. At a time when our trade deficit is far too high, we can no longer tolerate one-sided trade relationships. In the last year we've been moving aggressively on a number of different fronts to meet the trade deficit challenge. We've worked to pry open the closed and sheltered markets of our trading partners, bringing unfair trading actions when called for. Progress has been made on this front. We've also worked to restore a value to the dollar that reflects economic and competitive realities and that will enable American businessmen and farmers to compete more effectively in world markets. Here, too, we've made considerable progress, as the substantial adjustment of the dollar against the Japanese yen, the German mark, and other European currencies indicates. Finally, we agreed last May at the Tokyo summit to improve economic policy coordination. In that spirit, we've been urging others, especially those with large trade surpluses, to adopt growth-oriented policies at home, enabling their citizens to buy more American products and other imports. The answer to our trade balance problem is not to close our markets, cut imports, or collapse trade. Millions of American jobs are tied to imports. The way to a better life is to open markets now closed, improve trading conditions, and to expand our exports. We learned that lesson half a century ago when we tried to balance the trade deficit by erecting a tariff wall around the United States. The Smoot-Hawley tariff ignited an international trade war and helped sink our country into the Great Depression. Today we're taking a positive approach. We're working with all our trading partners to improve the situation and, at the same time, keep international commerce flowing. That's why you and I and every American have a stake in the new round of global trade talks taking place this week in Punta del Este, Uruguay. Our Trade Representative, Clayton Yeutter, as well as Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng and Secretary of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige will be there fighting hard to open markets which are now closed to our goods. One of our major priorities at the talks will be addressing the mutually destructive practice of subsidizing agricultural exports. Friendly nations, trying to help domestic producers, are undermining the well-being of farmers all over the world; and American farmers are some of the hardest hit. The situation is intolerable, and we expect to have it corrected. Our country is also victimized by the international theft of American creativity. Too many countries turn a blind eye when their citizens violate patent and copyright laws designed to protect intellectual property rights. If we permit the product of our best minds to be stolen, we will pay the price in ingenuity, vision, and creativity-the core of all human progress. Here again, we expect tangible changes to be made to straighten this matter out. Another unavoidable issue at the trade talks is the barriers countries erect to interfere with trade in services, such as banking, telecommunications, and insurance. The service end of our economy is growing dramatically, and in this modern age there is no reason to cordon off a vital arena of economic activity from international competition. Most governments that restrict economic activity do so out of the mistaken notion that they're serving the interests of their people. Some governments go to enormous lengths to discourage foreign investment. The end result of this absurdity is industrial stagnation: no new factories, no new development, and no new jobs. We want to see a freer flow of investment resources between countries. Finally, our representatives at the trade talks will be trying to improve procedures for settling disputes in international commerce. Our position is clear: The playing field should be level, the ground rules should be set, and all players should stick to the rules. When a dispute arises, it should be settled, not ignored. We're attempting at Punta del Este to lay the foundation for the next decade of world trade, a decade that will carry the United States and the world into an unparalleled era of growth and prosperity. We must make certain that all mankind benefits from a healthy and robust international trading system, one that is both free and fair. That's what we're aiming at. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's autumn in Washington, and as children here and around the country return to school, Congress has returned to complete its workmost importantly, the final passage of our historic tax reform bill. We've come a long way from that day nearly a year-and-a-half ago when I asked Congress to take up the task of reforming our tax code, making it fairer and simpler and putting it on the side of families and growth, rather than on the side of special interests. You may remember what the Washington pundits said at the time. We heard that there was no way that a simple and fair tax bill could survive the beating it would get as it ran the gauntlet of Washington lobbyists and insiders. Even as late as last April, we were told in the press that tax reform was dead. Well, there's one thing about Washington: There are always plenty of people around to tell you why something can't be done. But what those people always forget is that there's a force in our nation more powerful than all the lobbyists and insiders put together. And that force is the peopleyou, your neighbors and friends, and people like you across America. And so, because of you and your support, in the last few months we've seen develop in Congress a broad, bipartisan backing for tax reform. And now, thanks to the leadership of Senator Bob Packwood and Congressman Dan Rostenkowski, the Senate and House are preparing to vote on the final bill. Passage of that bill will mean that for most of you taxes will come down. But even as I'm speaking to you, the special interests are launching their last-ditch offensive. You're going to be hearing a lot from them in the next few days. So, before they get started, let's just set the record straight. First, let's be clear about what tax reform means to you and your family. One of our important goals in tax reform has been making the tax system better for American families. Well, if you're like 80 percent of Americans, enactment of this bill will mean that your top tax rate will be no more than 15 percent. Your standard deduction will go way up and your personal exemption will almost double to a full $2,000 by 1989. And no one's income will be taxed more than 28 percent. All this means that if yours is like the typical family, when everything is added up, you'll end up with $500 to $800 more a year. Not bad for starters. And tax reform means even more to lower income Americans. This bill is perhaps the greatest antipoverty program in history. It will take 6 million poor people off the income tax rolls entirely. But what will it do for the economy as a whole? The short answer is: more jobs2 to 3 million more in the next decade, according to the Treasury Department. The first reason for that is you. You'll have more money, and whether you spend it or invest it, you'll be helping to create more jobs. But that's not all. We're taking the shelter out of tax shelters. No longer will there be fancy schemes and fast angles that produce nothing but tax breaks. Lawyers, accountants, and businessmen will spend more time looking at the reality of supply and demand and less time exploring the never-never land of the tax code. They'll be looking for investments that create real products, real income, and real jobs. I've said all along that the final tax reform bill had to keep the incentives for American industry to invest in jobs and the future. And that's what this Senate-House tax reform bill does. It keeps the most important incentives for business investment that we won in 1981our tax bill. And while making sure every business pays a fair-share minimum tax, it brings down the overall corporate tax rate to 34 percent. The other industrial countries of the world know what this means. In almost every one, voices are now saying that the new American tax system will make U.S. businesses more competitive and that maybe they'd better get busy and lower their own tax rates, or lose out to us. Five-and-a-half years ago, all of us began a long journey to restoring America's strength and greatness. We brought down inflation from some of the highest levels in our history to where it is today, the lowest level in over 20 years. Then we cut tax rates and saw the beginning of the strongest economic growth in 33 years. Since the recovery began, we've created more new jobs than Europe and Japan combined. Today we have a greater percentage of our people employed than ever before in our history, and never before have so many Americans held jobs. Tax reform will help us continue that growth. I hope you will support our effort to defeat the special interests and win one for the hard-working taxpayers of this country. If your Congressmen and Senators cast their votes for America's future and enact the Senate-House tax reform bill, we can do just that. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's getting on close to the end of the month, and I bet many of you'll be spending part of this Saturday or the next hunkered down at your desk, calculator in hand, balancing your checkbook, and making sure your family's finances are in order. There are probably a hundred things you'd rather be doing on a fall weekend, but you know that it's important to your family's security and happiness. Well, this basic responsibility, which millions of Americans successfully perform every month, appears to be just too much for the United States Congress. September 30th is the final deadline for Congress to pass our nation's budget, the appropriations that will allow the Government to continue to function. Once again, the budget deadline finds Congress unable to produce a responsible budget. They let it come right down to the wire. I say once again because this is nothing new. It's been many years since Congress has passed its appropriations on time. Instead, they throw together what they call a continuing resolution, at the last momenta kind of Christmas tree hung with pet projects and wasteful spending programs that never could have made it into a real budget. For 6 months Congress has dragged its feet, refusing to send me the appropriations bills that I need to keep the Government running. In all that time, the one appropriations bill that has made the most progress isnot surprisinglythe spending bill that would fund the legislative branch. I suppose that's what's called taking care of number one. All the other spending bills that directly help the people and run the Government are stalled. So, without a real budget, we are once again facing a continuing resolution which, this year, lumps every single spending allocation for the entire Government into one huge omnibus bill. But that isn't the worst of it. The House of Representatives is trying to use this bill to force through policies that they know could not pass otherwisepolicies that do not belong in an appropriations bill and are simply unacceptable. Provisions passed in the Democratically controlled House would pull the rug out from under our negotiators at the arms control talks with the Soviets in Geneva, endangering the real progress we are making toward meaningful arms reductions. Others would hurt programs vital to our defense needs. And while all sorts of wasteful boondoggles are included, they want to cut essential pay raises for our military personnel. And I'm sorry, but that's just plain wrong. After delaying so long, some in Congress say I should just sign this spending-spree bill because otherwise the Government will be forced to shut down. Well, I hope they know where the keys to the building are, because if they don't act responsibly, I won't have any choice but to shut it down. If they want to put a real budget together by candlelight, it's okay by me. Now it's up to the Senate to remove the most objectionable parts of the House bill so we can keep operating. My friends, this is no way to run a government. The breakdown of the congressional budget process is one of the primary reasons why spending is out of control and deficits are so large. Some Democrats believe that you, the taxpayers, caused the deficit because you pay too little in taxes. Well, that's hogwash. We don't have deficits because you're undertaxed; we have deficits because Congress overspends. It's time Congress cut the Federal budget and left your family budgets alone. For all their talk about the deficit, the liberal Democrats in Congress have not been able to control their big spending ways. Last February 1 proposed eliminating 44 wasteful programs, but Congress cut only 2. Now, instead of reducing spending, some in Congress want to break faith with the American people and turn tax reform into a tax hike. Well, that really touches my temperature control. It seems to me that if we can't convince the liberals in Congress to cut spending, maybe we should cut the number of liberals in the Congress. This yearly budget fiasco illustrates clearly that the process simply doesn't work, but there is a solution. If Congress can't control spending, they should give me what 43 State Governors have: the line-item veto. Then, each spending item could be judged on its own merits, and Congress couldn't sneak through spending programs they know would never survive the light of day. And isn't it time we had a balanced budget amendment? Earlier this year that amendment lost by only one vote. The American people want a balanced budget amendment. In this election year, isn't it time that we make sure our elected representatives do, too? Let's vote for a Congress that will pass the line-item veto and the balanced budget amendment and, once and for all, get Federal spending under control. I can tell you one thing, it would really make my day. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm sure many of you have heard that a week from now in Reykjavik, Iceland, I'll be meeting with the leader of the Soviet Union, General Secretary Gorbachev. Though the meeting will be relatively brief, our discussions will be of critical importance: We'll be laying the groundwork for Mr. Gorbachev's upcoming visit to the United States and the summit talks that will take place then. Now, as President, I get all sorts of briefings when talks like these are scheduled, but I thought today I'd change things around a bit and give a briefing of my own to those who I think are equally important participants in the summit process-you, the people. Now, I know it's true that some here in the Capital think the people can't be trusted with such complex matters as foreign policy. But along with our Founding Fathers, I've always believed that the intuitive wisdom of the people is far more dependable over the long run than the temporary insights or parochial pursuits of the Washington experts. And that's why I've said right from the start that the first obligation of democratic leaders is to keep the people informed and seek their support on public policy. So, today I want to take a few moments to bring you up to date on the meeting in Iceland and ask your support for our objectives there. In particular, I want to ask your help in removing a grave obstacle to our chances for progress at these talks and the others to follow. It's an obstacle created by partisan divisions here at home, so I do think it's a problem you can help me solve. Perhaps you remember, Mr. Gorbachev and I first met a year ago in Geneva. We spent about 5 hours alone and more than 15 hours together with the rest of our delegations. Believe me, we learned, again, the truth of the statement: Nations don't mistrust each other because they're armed; they're armed because they mistrust each other. On this point, I was very blunt and candid with Mr. Gorbachev and told him that in our view the source of that mistrust was the Soviet Union's record of seeking to impose its ideology and rule on others. But I also made it clear that while the United States remains committed to freedom and self-determination for all the nations of the world, we also want to work with the Soviet Union to prevent war and maintain peace. We believe the twin goals of world peace and freedom can be furthered by making progress with the Soviet Union in four thorny but closely related areas: respect for human rights, arms reductions, the resolution of regional conflicts, and expanded bilateral contacts between our nations. And to achieve progress on such a broad agenda, we believe personal meetings between our leaders can be very useful. First, as I said, to dispel illusionsto make sure the Soviets avoid miscalculation, that they know where we stand. And second, the simple fact is that heads of state can frequently resolve matters far more quickly than other negotiators can. On this point, I like to tell a story about the Geneva summit. Our experts thought the scheduling of any future meetings was a difficult, delicate subject best left to later in the discussions. Yet as we were walking together after our first meeting, I mentioned to Mr. Gorbachev how much I would like him to visit the United States. So, I invited him, and he said, "I accept." And then he told me how much he'd like me to see the Soviet Union. So, he invited me, and I said, "I accept." And there it was, as simple as that. So, face-to-face talks can be helpful. And when the Soviet Foreign Minister met with me 2 weeks ago, he carried a letter from Mr. Gorbachev. Part of the letter was the suggestion that we meet in a third country, like Iceland, for preparatory talks on the upcoming summit here in the United States. I accepted. I want you to know that next week during the talks in Iceland, we will be taking the same balanced approach we took in Geneva. On one hand, we'll make it clear we seek negotiations and serious progress with the Soviets on a wide range of issues. On the other, we'll make it clear that we will not sacrifice our values, principles, or vital interests for the sake of merely signing agreements. And that's just another way of making it clear to the Soviets we harbor no illusions about them or their geopolitical intentions. This last point is important. You see, in the past, when agreements were reached with the Soviets, this led to much unrealistic talk about the great thaw in Soviet-American relations and even predictions about the end of the cold war. And then when the Soviets reverted to form, such as the invasion of Afghanistan, the result was shock and policy paralysis in Washington. Well, this now has changed. Just last monthafter a Soviet spy at the United Nations was arrestedthe Soviets retaliated by taking hostage an American journalist, Nicholas Daniloff, in Moscow. It was an act of international outrage, but this time we were prepared. Because we understood that the Soviets are relentless adversaries, they could not surprise us nor could their actions derail our long-term commitments or initiatives. We knew what we had to do. We wanted Daniloff freed, with no deals. We had to make clear to them the consequences of their actions. We had to be direct, candid, and forceful. And we were. And that's why Nicholas Daniloff is freed and back in the United States. Later, we swapped Zakharov, the spy, for two noted Russian dissidents, Yuriy and Irina Orlov. And that's why we can now go forward to Iceland. Believe me, as we proceed along the path of negotiations, there will be other such obstacles. But let me assure you: As each obstacle arises, we will again make clear to the Soviets our lack of illusions about them and our resolve to hold them accountable for their actions. Now, that's the bottom line to this briefing: In order to be successful in negotiations, an American President must be perceived by the Soviets as realistic and firm and, above all, a President speaking for a united people, a united country. In the past this has been one of the Nation's noblest traditions. When it came to matters of national security, politics usually stopped at the water's edge. Americans stood together and the fabric of bipartisan cooperation was untearable, the bond of national unity unbreakable. As I mentioned when I returned last year from Geneva, rarely have the expressions of public and congressional support been more gratifying than during our negotiations with the Soviets. And so today, with a new round of negotiations underway, I'm appealing again for that support. And I'm asking the Congress to be especially alert about sending the Soviets a message of national unity. For example, we believe our 5 1/2-year military buildup has been a principal factor in bringing the Soviets to the negotiating table. So, we need continued support for defense appropriations. So, too, some legislative restrictions passed by the House of Representatives could well jeopardize the chances for successful discussions with the Soviets. The House, for example, voted to ban tests of antisatellite systems, even though the Soviets have such a system in operation and we don't. They voted to stop us from producing a credible deterrent to modern Soviet chemical weapons. They voted to substantially cut our request for the Strategic Defense Initiatives, a program that promotes a safer future and also underpins our negotiating position in Geneva and our hopes for strategic arms reductions. They voted to deny funds to move beyond certain limits of SALT II, a treaty that couldn't be ratified and that would've expired by now if it had been ratifiedand that the Soviets have repeatedly violated. And finally, the House has prohibited essentially the testing of all nuclear weapons, which we still need to deter war. These national security proposals, as well as other unacceptable domestic policy provisions, are now included in the government-wide appropriations bill that is being sent this way. Unless they are changed from the House-passed version, believe me, it will be vetoed. But there is an even larger issue. Every single one of these issues I outlined is under discussion with the Soviets. I cannot afford to have my hands tied in our discussions about them, nor can we fail to have the Government's appropriations resolved for next year. The Soviets must not think that delay could work to their advantage by gaining from the Congress what they cannot win at the negotiating table. And that's why we need to send to the Soviets a consistent message of clear resolve and national unity. These upcoming negotiations are important to you, your children, and America's future. Today I'm asking your support and that of the congressional leadership. Bipartisan cooperation has been the keystone of American foreign policy, and as I've said, I'm grateful and deeply touched by the support I've received in the past from all of you. But right now that support is needed more than ever. The Members of Congress should know that, as I said at the beginning, the people are the experts in any democracy and you will hold accountable those who, for the sake of partisan advantage, trifle with our national security and the chances for peace and freedom. These are hopeful developments. And that's why I think we can view this whole summit process soberly and yet with a reasonable degree of optimism. Thank you for your support in the past, and as we leave for the talks in Iceland, I hope I can count on you again. Make your views known in Washington and remember to keep us in your prayers as well. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It seems hard to believe that only a week ago at this time, I was in Iceland, engaged in historic talks with Mr. Gorbachev, the leader of the Soviet Union. As I reported to you on Monday, we made great progress at that meeting. Some are now saying that we made more progress in these few days than negotiators between our countries have made in the last few years. And a great deal of the credit for that belongs to you, the American people, because, you see, I took with me to Reykjavik the strength that can only come from a free and democratic people. Well, in just a few weeks, we Americans are once again going to show the world the one thing that, more than any other, is the source of our strength. We'll go to the polls, and as a free people, we'll vote. This year we'll be casting ballots in many States for Senators, Governors, and other officials; and everywhere we'll be voting for a new House of Representatives. But just as important as how we vote is that we vote. Every vote cast on election day means that we the people have taken a hand in shaping our nation's future. Every time we vote we're grabbing a hold of a lifeline that's 3,000 miles long and more than two centuries old and, with millions of others, helping to pull America forward into the future. Yes, every time we vote we're standing up, side by side, with the Founding Fathers, with the men of Valley Forge, with patriots and pioneers throughout our history, with all those who dedicated their lives to making this a nation of the people, by the people, and for the people. Every time we vote we help to make America stronger. I'm sure you've heard friends say, "Oh, my vote won't matter." Well, the next time someone says that to you, I hope you'll remember that time and again, over the years, elections have turned on a handful of ballots. In 1960 President Kennedy was elected by a margin of just one vote in each precinct around the nation. In 1976 the Presidential election turned on two States: one was won by six votes a precinct; the other by only a single vote a precinct. And in the last 26 years more than 50 U.S. Senate and House races have been won by fewer than a thousand votes. But even when elections aren't that close, your ballot counts, because in voting, you're accepting your part in the greatest decisionmaking body the world has ever known, the American electorate. And as someone who's stayed up late on many election nights waiting to hear how the American people had decided, I can tell you that from where I sitwhether elections are close or not-every vote is important. A little more than 2 years ago, I walked along a beach in France where American and other forces first landed in 1944 to begin their crusade in Europe. Those Americans fought, and many of them died, for the freedom that we cherish today. Every one of them knew, and we must never forget, that freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. They knew that freedom is something that we all must join together to preserve, protect, and defend. And our first line of defense is not our weapons or our military, but our right to decide who governs us. That's a right the soldiers who fought against our men at Normandy didn't have. That's a right that those on the other side of the Iron Curtain today don't have. I've visited our men and women in uniform all over the world. It's the part of this job I like best. They're some of the best we've ever had. And if you're one of them, let me say to you that helping to protect America includes helping to decide America's future, and that begins with voting. I've also visited with many young people around our country. Nothing could be more inspiring than to hear them talk about the future. And yet I've found that too many of them don't vote. If you're one of our nation's young people, I hope you'll remember that America needs your optimism, your patriotism and idealism, your thirst for opportunity in shaping the decisions of the years to come. Those decisions are going to shape your life, too. And they're too important for you to give up any part of your role in making them. So, please vote. Nancy and I voted last night. We won't be home on election day, so we got absentee ballots. We filled them out, signed them, and sent them on their way. If, like us, you're going to be away on November 4th, why not arrange for your own absentee ballot? Call your local election officials, or if you're in the military, talk to your commanding officer or voting assistance officer. Voting is a precious right that for two centuries Americans have fought and died to protect. Let's all honor that sacrifice this election day. Whether you're Republican, Democrat, or Independent, circle November 4th on your calendar and then show that you care about America's future and get out and vote. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Wednesday, in a ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House, I signed into law the most sweeping reform of the tax code in our nation's history. That moment was a victory for fairness that will, I'm convinced, usher in a new era of growth and opportunity for America. When this bill goes into effect, 80 percent of the American people will pay a top rate of only 15 percent or less in Federal income tax. No one will pay more than 28 percent of total income. A family of four living at the poverty level will have over $1,000 more in their pockets. In fact, millions of working poor will be dropped from the Federal income tax rolls altogetherthey won't have to pay a cent in Federal income tax. Now, that's what I call fair. As for families, at long last blessed relief. The standard deduction will increase sharply, and the personal exemptionthat's the amount of money you get to deduct for yourself and each one of your dependentswill almost double, rising to $2,000 in 1989. I wasn't exaggerating when I said that this bill is at once the best antipoverty program, the best profamily measure, and the best jobs creation bill ever to come out of the U.S. Congress. The day I signed this bill we also heard some extremely good news about the economy. Gross national product, the figure that measures our economy's growth, showed a strong upswing in the third quarter, coming in at 2.4 percent. Sales are up, with a sharp increase in durable goods purchasespointing to increased production and more jobs in the future. And U.S. exports of goods and services are up dramatically over last quarter. What does all this mean? Well, it tells us that our economy is solid and accelerating again. We're now enjoying one of the longest peacetime economic expansions in postwar history. We're seeing record numbers of new businesses being created and nearly 11.7 million jobs created in the last 46 months. Sure there are ups and downs, and some sectors of the economy are not yet sharing fully in the expansion. But the indications are that our economy is gathering momentum for even more growth, more job creation, a narrowing trade deficit, and continued low inflation in the months ahead. Add to this the progrowth, low rate taxesor tax rates, I should say, of the new tax bill and you've got an economy that's ready to climb. We're headed for a second leg upward, and I believe our 4-year-long recovery will one day be recorded as one of the most remarkable peacetime expansions in the 20th century. And we're going to keep the good times rolling until they extend to every single corner of our nation. Contrast this with the economic mess we inherited 5 1/2 years ago. It's not for nothing those are called the days of malaise. Inflation then had skyrocketed up to 13 percent. Now it's holding at an incredible 1.8 percent. The prime rate had shot up to 21 1/2 percent. Today we've cut it by two-thirds. When we came into office the top tax rate was 70 percent, and the middle class was paying tax rates that once were levied only on the very rich. Worse, inflation gave you an automatic tax hike every year and Congress more of your money to spend, without their having to stand up and vote for a tax hike. Well, the first thing we did was cut your taxes and index them so that wouldn't happen again. And with tax reform, that top rate of 70 has been chopped to only 28 percent of total income. All these achievements were hard fought, believe me. But it's a funny thing, some of the same people who fought us every step of the way when we tried to cut taxes and reform our tax codethese same people are talking down the American economy. Well, in one sense, I have to say they're right. There is a cloud hanging over the American economy, and that's the possibility that the tax-and-spend mentality will return to Washington and take us back to those bad old days of sky-high taxes, double-digit inflation, and 21 1/2 percent interest rates. Don't think it can't happen. There are still a lot of people in Washington who have that mentality, who want to raise your taxes back up to where they were in 1980. So, unless we keep our guard up, we could find ourselves in no time returning to the policies of tax and tax, spend and spend. And we'd wake up one morning to find that all we've worked so hard for, all our progress, gone with the wind. Now, that's why I'm talking to you, the American people. Your hard work turned America around and set it firmly on the road of prosperityand the numbers released this week prove it. We've come so far. With your commitment, with your support, we can keep America growing, confident, and secure. We canand I know we willkeep the doors of the opportunity society wide open and keep America's future one of hope and ever-growing possibilities. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk with you for a few minutes about a cause that I know is as dear to you as it is to methe cause of peace. America's at peace today, and for any President that's cause for real satisfaction. Still, a President's job is more than thatit's to make the peace we enjoy today even more secure. Since my meeting just 3 weeks ago with General Secretary Gorbachev in Reykjavik, Iceland, the capital city of that island nation in the North Atlantic, I believe that prospects for strengthening peace between our country and the Soviet Union have become better than at any time in the last 40 years. Today I want to tell you how we're building on what we accomplished there and what it will take to make the most of the opportunities that opened up in these discussions. We're pursuing agreements on some of the most vital issues of our time, but success will dependas it shouldon your support and on that of the Congress. In Iceland, Mr. Gorbachev and I made major gains in addressing the many key issues in U.S.-Soviet relations. For the first time, we came close to an historic agreement on dramatic reductions in strategic nuclear weapons. For the first time, the Soviets talked seriously about removing all intermediate-range missiles from Europe and doing it in a way that would not threaten our Asian allies. And they accepted the principle that human rights issues must be a permanent part of our dialog. It's no wonder that some have said that we made more progress in those 2 days than negotiators for our countries have made in the past 2 years toward true arms reductions. It's no longer a matter of if we reach agreement; it's now a matter of when. One of the keys to our success in Iceland was our Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI-our program to find a way to defend against ballistic missiles. SDI helped to bring the Soviets to the bargaining table, and it will keep them there. SDI will help assure compliance and implementation with eventual agreements, and it will provide a vital insurance policy for peace in a world without ballistic missiles. As I've said many times in the past week, no responsible President should rely solely on a piece of paper for our country's safety. We know the record on Soviet treaty violations. We can either have American technology as insurance for keeping us safe, or we can rely on Soviet promises alone. Our technology and their promises each have their own track record. And I'll take our technology any day. Since Reykjavik, our negotiators at Geneva have made clear that, as far as America is concerned, everything that we proposed in Iceland is still on the table. We're ready to move forward, for example, on achieving a 50-percent reduction of both U.S. and Soviet strategic forces in the next 5 years, on eliminating intermediate-range missiles in Europe, and on scrapping all ballistic missiles on both sides in the next decade. To continue our dialog at the highest level, I've asked Secretary of State Shultz to meet next week in Vienna, on November 5th and 6th, with Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze to discuss these and other issues on our agenda. A spokesman for the Soviet Government said last week that the meeting between Secretary Shultz and Mr. Shevardnadze was an opportunity for continuing the Reykjavik talks. Well, we agree. Every time our countries meet we have that opportunity. We will use this meeting to solidify and advance the progress we made in Reykjavik. But as we build on Icelandwhether in Vienna or Geneva or Washington, where our two countries held talks on civil space cooperation this weeklet's not forget why relations with the Soviets have come so far, so fast. A great deal of the credit for this progress belongs to you, the American people. You've supported our program to build America's strength. Today our men and women in uniform have the best equipment and training available. And I might add that our men and women in uniform are the best available, too. And I know you join in my pride in them. America also firmly supports the forces of freedom around the world, and we go to every negotiating table in a position of strength. You know, as I look back on the last few weeks of remarkable progress, I can't help remembering something Winston Churchill once said. "There is nothing," he said, "for which the Soviets have less respect than weakness, particularly military weakness, and nothing they admire so much as strength." Churchill's wisdom points to a simple truth: that peace is strong today because America is strong. In the last few months, some in Congress tried to ignore that truth. They tried to cut vital defense programs, including SDI, even as I was preparing to go to Iceland. I hope you'll let your elected representatives know that that's not what you want, that you want to continue to build a strong America so that, together, we can continue to build a more peaceful, stable world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The campaign season is behind us, and it's now time to get down to business here in Washington. As we wrapped up the last session of Congress, one bit of unfinished business was crying out to be completed. I'm talking about the congressional budget process. I believe, and many believe with me, that the way the budgets are put together is a disgrace, simply unworthy of the Legislature of the greatest democracy in the world. This is not a criticism of Congress. In fact, many Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle agree. Let's look for a moment at what happened this year. For more than 8 months the process dragged on, with Congress failing to send to me any of the appropriations bills I needed to keep the Government running. It came down to the deadline, the day the Federal Government would simply run out of money, and there was still no budget. Instead, as has happened so many years in the past, we got what is called a continuing resolution, a grab bag full of special-interest projects that never would have made it into a real budget. This was the first time in history, however, that every single appropriations bill for the whole United States Government was dumped in one wagon. I was given a half-trillion-dollar spending bill on a take-it-or-leave-it basis. Well, we insisted that some of the most flagrant abuses of the budget process be taken out, such as language that would have undercut our position at the arms reduction talks in Geneva, language that would have very likely have made our progress in Iceland all but impossible. Other provisions that would have hurt vital defense needs were also eliminated. Even so, you can bet that tucked away in that half-trillion-dollar bill was enough waste to run several small countries for many years. There are many in the Congress who are unhappy with the way the budget process works. In the crisis atmosphere surrounding these continuing resolutions, all sorts of wasteful spending programs and other measures that never could have survived a thorough and thoughtful debate can sneak through. My friends, I agree this is no way for the United States of America to conduct its fiscal affairs. No private company would be permitted to behave this way. No State legislature in our Union is allowed to conduct its affairs this irresponsibly. And most important, no family can be so negligent in running its finances. Why can't we expect the United States Congress to do what millions of American families do every month: set a budget, stick to it, and balance their checkbooks? You know, our Founding Fathers considered the power of the purse the most important responsibility of the legislative branch. If that power is abused, it can have very serious consequences for our nation, not only threatening our prosperity with huge budget deficits but, ultimately, undermining the economic foundations of our safety and national security. And that's why we must start now, while the memory of this year's budget fiasco is still fresh in our minds, to reform the budget process. We must redouble our efforts, on both sides of the aisle, in a spirit of cooperation to improve the budget process. There are a number of solutions to this problem, and I will outline other recommendations at a later date. The balanced budget amendment and the line-item veto are a good place to begin. The American people overwhelmingly support a balanced budget. And the balanced budget amendment lost in the Senate early this year by only one vote. When Congress reconvenes next year, that amendment should be foremost on their agenda. The line-item veto can also be within reach of next year's Congress. No other single piece of legislation would so quickly and effectively put order back into our budget process. All it would mean is that the President could selectively sign or veto individual spending items, that he wouldn't have to take the fat along with the meat. Forty-three Governors have the line-item veto. I had it when I was Governor of California. You know, when we first started talking about tax reform, a chorus of naysayers arose telling us it couldn't be done. But we stuck to our guns, and with your support and a bipartisan coalition in Congress, we did it all right: The most profound, progrowth tax reform this nation has ever seen is now the law of the land. Well, the same can be true with budget reform. There are always people in this town telling you why something can't be done. But I've got one good reason why budget reform can be done, and that reason is you, the American people. And that's why I believe Washington ain't seen nothin' yet. Budget reform is an idea whose time has come. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans: Last Saturday I spoke to you about the congressional budget process, how it had completely broken down and was in urgent need of reform. As I said then, there are many in Congress, on both sides of the aisle, who agree that something must be done, and done now, to prevent this out-of-control budget process from further threatening the economic well-being of our nation. Well, this week I want to talk about how a similar bipartisan consensus is forming in Congress around many other issuesboth domestic and internationalholding out the hope of significant progress in the months ahead. So, let's take a moment to look at our broader agenda and see just where we stand. One of the most troubling issues facing our country is drugs. But it's a problem that, working together, I know we can lick. I must say, I couldn't have been more heartened than during this fall's campaign. Wherever I went, the rallies were thronged with young people. So, before I got into the substance of my speech, I'd usually start off with a message to them from Nancy. I would say, "When it comes to drugs, pleasefor yourselves, for your families, for your future, and for your countryjust say no." And it was a marvelous thing. Almost all the time, by the time I got to the end, those hundreds of young people were on their feet calling out loudly along with me, "Just say no!" America is united today as never before in its recognition that illegal drugs are evilpure and simplea threat to our children and our nation that simply cannot be tolerated. Well, I'm glad to say that both parties in Congress were able to cooperate and act quickly in confronting this problem. While we'd hoped that the final drug bill would include stiffer penaltiesincluding the death penaltyfor the pushers who prey upon our nation's youth, this bill still represents a major step forward, including stiffer law enforcement and improved efforts at antidrug education and treatment. Another example of cooperation is the bipartisan consensus that formed around tax reform. Last month I signed a bill that will give us the most modern tax code and the lowest marginal individual tax rates of any major industrialized country. It will make America more productive, more competitive abroad, and more prosperous at home. Eighty percent of the American people will pay a top Federal income tax rate of only 15 percent or less. Families will get a long overdue tax break, and millions of poor will be dropped from the tax rolls altogether. It's no exaggeration when I call tax reform simultaneously the best jobs creation bill, the best antipoverty legislation, and the best profamily legislation the U.S. Congress has ever produced. Having come so far, we cannot let ourselves slide back into the past. We must strengthen the consensus that tax hikes on the American people are simply out of the question. It is Congress's responsibility to cut the Federal budget and leave the family budget alone. A third area of cooperationin many ways the most importanthas been on the grave threat of Communist subversion in our hemisphere. This year many Senators and Congressmen on both sides of the aisle joined us in supporting military assistance to the brave freedom fighters in Nicaragua. I believe we're beginning to see the recreation of the fundamental bipartisan consensus on national security issues that guided this nation through much of the postwar era. Nothing could be more important than this: When it comes to America's national security, politics must stop at the water's edge. America must remain united in spirit and strong in purpose. We must resist together the threat to our security and freedom posed by an aggressive, Soviet-sponsored regime on the American mainland. So, I'm looking forward to working with the 100th Congress. Together, there is much we can accomplish. At the same time, let me make it clear that America cannot retreat from its basic commitments, and where I see backsliding, I will not hesitate to use my constitutional veto power to keep America strong and secure and moving forward. My hope is that in the 100th Congress we will strengthen the consensus we have achieved on these issues of progrowth tax cuts, spending reductions, and protecting our national security in Central America. And I hope we can make up for lost time in other areas, especially the urgent task of budget reform, so we can keep America moving forward on the track of peace, progress, and prosperity. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This coming Thursday we'll celebrate a holiday that belongs uniquely to our nationThanksgiving Day. Millions of us will travel from all parts of the country to gather in family homes, observing the holiday according to longstanding tradition: turkey with all the fixings, pumpkin pie, laughter, the warmth of family, love, and, yes, a moment of prayer to give thanks. Yet, at the same time, many among us will be less fortunate. And just as Thanksgiving Day has always been an occasion for counting our blessings, so, too, it's always been a time for making life better among our fellow Americans. In churches and synagogues across the country, for example, food will be collected in the next few days for distribution to the needy, or on Thanksgiving Day itself. And with this spirit of Thanksgiving in mind, I thought I'd speak with you for a moment this afternoon about the goodness of the American people and our willingness to give each other a helping hand. The spirit of voluntarism is deeply ingrained in us as a nation. Maybe it has something to do with our history as a frontier land. Those early Americans who gave us Thanksgiving Day itself had to help each other in order to survivejoining together to plant crops, build houses, and raise barns. And perhaps they discovered that in helping others their own lives were enriched. In our own day, a poll showed most Americans believe that no matter how big government gets and no matter how many services it provides, it can never take the place of volunteers. In other words, we Americans understand that there are no substitutes for gifts of service given from the heart. In our recent history, there was a time not long ago when this spirit seemed endangered, when philanthropy and personal involvement were giving way to bureaucratic plans and Federal programs. So, when our administration took office, we made it one of our main aims to encourage private sector initiatives, to reinvigorate the American tradition of voluntarism. And I have to admit, our success in this area is one of the accomplishments of which I'm most proud. For in the past few years, we've witnessed an unprecedented outpouring of the volunteer spirit, a tremendous reassertion of good will and neighborliness. Last year alone, individuals, corporations, bequests, and foundations gave nearly $80 billion to good causesa record high. You can see these volunteer efforts all around. Consider the United Way, founded a century ago next year. Today there are more than 2,200 local United Ways in communities throughout the country. Just last year the United Way raised more than $2.3 billion, supported more than 3,700 health and human care agencies and programs, and served millions of families. In 1958, for example, Dr. William Walsh asked President Dwight Eisenhower for the use of an old hospital ship, mothballed after World War II. Ike provided that ship, charging rent of just 81 a year. And Dr. Walsh turned the old ship into Project HOPE, a seaborne hospital and medical school that traveled the world. Today Project HOPE has been modernized, and medical volunteers traveled by plane recently to El Salvador to help with the aftereffects of the devastating earthquake. Then there's Just Say No, a largely volunteer organization that's teaching children around the world to say no to drugs. This organization got started when Nancy was visiting an elementary school in California. A little girl asked what to do if someone offered her drugs, and Nancy's answer was simple: "Just say no." Well, not long ago, Nancy hosted a Just Say No rally here at the White House. More than 2,300 children attended. Although Just Say No requires school officials, teachers, and especially parents to devote to it a great deal of time, Nancy told me that everyone she spoke to at the rally was convinced that it's not only worth it but of vital importance for the future. Local efforts may be less well known than major undertakings like Just Say No and Project HOPE, but to the very heart and soul of the American volunteer spirit, many of you'll be able to think of good works being performed in your own communities. I think of a house for the homeless here in Washington founded by a young priest, Father Jack Pfannenstiel, and sustained by his own hard work and that of volunteers. McKenna House offers shelter, food, and human concern for the homeless men right here in our Nation's Capital. Of course, we must do more, striving always to give of ourselves to those less fortunate. But it's good to reflect that here in America, perhaps more than in any other nation on Earth, we have a tradition of givingof neighbor helping neighborthat makes life better for tens of thousands every day. And for this, too, on Thanksgiving Day, let us give thanks. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When Nancy and I celebrate Thanksgiving weekend each year in California's Santa Ynez Mountains, we find it a wonderful opportunity to be together with family and friends and, like so many Americans, a chance to reflect on all the Lord's blessings to our country. We've been particularly conscious this year of one blessing that has made this holiday season a happy one for countless more Americans, Americans who in years past were trapped in want and poverty. Only 4 years ago, as our economic policies were just taking effect, we began what became the second-longest peacetime expansion since World War II. This year the stock market has hit all-time highs, while inflation continues near all-time lows. Only this week new figures show inflation running at less than 1 percent in 1986, the trade deficit continues its substantial decline, and, above all, today more Americans are working than ever before. So, contrary to those many predictions over the last 4 yearssome of them still being heard as late as last August-there is no recession. Our expansion is not only with us but continues gaining momentum, and, of course, that means more jobs for more Americans. It's this last development we should be especially grateful for. In the past 4 years we've created more than 12 million payroll jobs, and that means 2.2 million people have lifted themselves out of poverty since 1983. As perhaps you know, it's budget preparation time in Washington. And recently, in reviewing these statistics, I reflected back on some of the solutions suggested a few years ago to our economic problemsthey have been the worst since the Great Depression. I can especially remember one make-work jobs program that Congress came up with, a $5.4 billion extravaganza that would have helped a relatively tiny number of people. Because it was just this sort of marketplace intrusion and government boondoggle that had put our economy in trouble in the first place, I decided that, Thanksgiving or not, this was one turkey we didn't need. And to resounding criticism from Congress and the media, I put a stop to it. Well, instead, we continued with an economic policy that lowered tax rates, cut spending, and abolished unnecessary regulations-and what a jobs program that turned out to be. We've averaged over 250,000 people finding jobs each and every month. And last month alone, close to 300,000 Americans went to work. So, I think there's a lesson never to be forgotten here: It's people, not government, who create wealth, provide growth, and ensure prosperity. That may sound elementary enough, but the history or our economic difficulties, especially the terribly big deficits we run each year, stem directly from our failure to remember that government consumes wealth, it doesn't create it. You see, it's a kind of legacy from a period when I was back in college studying economics. Following the theories of a noted English economist of the period, John Maynard Keynes, economists and politicians used to say that when bad times occur the only way to restore prosperity is to spend our way out of it with massive new government programs paid for by borrowing. "We owe it to ourselves!" they used to chant. But everybody knows you can't spend yourself rich any more than you can drink yourself sober. And you can't prime the pump without pumping the prime. And that's why the automatic recourse to government spending sent interest rates and inflation skyrocketing, slowed the economy, caused unemployment, and gave us what they call today a structural deficitthat's a deficit that goes up automatically each year because of a vast array of Federal programs that Congress refuses to reduce and, under the law, the President can't cut back by himself. Since our first day in office, we've been going after this structural deficit by, first, asking for major spending cuts and, second, asking for reforms like the line-item veto and balanced budget amendment that would, well, unstructure the structured deficit. So, while we've been occupied with the Iranian issue over the past 2 weeks, let's not forget that there are many other issues that concern us. And this deficit problem remains a major priority. In order to pursue this issue and all the others like it on our domestic and foreign agenda, we must be certain to maintain peace in the world and keep our defenses strong while, of course, sparking our domestic economy to even greater growth. As Jefferson once said, his one fear about our Constitution was that it permitted government to borrow. Well, government has borrowed too much and spent too much. So, believe me, I'll be back in Washington next week, determined to work with the Congress to get deficit spending under control and keep America growing with record numbers of jobs for American people. Until next week, thanks for listening, God bless you.\par
I'm speaking to you today from Camp David, and because the atmosphere here is a bit more informal than everyday Washington, I thought it would be a good opportunity to think and reflect with you about those crucial foreign policy matters so much in the news lately. It's also a chance to do something I've wanted to do throughout the course of these events: and that's share some personal thoughts with you, to speak to you, the American people, from the heart. I realize you must be disappointed and probably confused with all the furor of the last couple of weeks. You must be asking: What were we doing in the Middle East? What was our policy? Where was it wrong? Were we engaged in some kind of shenanigans that blew up in our face? I can understand if these are the questions you're asking, and I'd like to provide some answers. First of all, the Middle East is critically important to our nation's security. Right now it's a major trouble spot that could easily set off the sparks of a wider conflict. Much of our effort has been aimed at stopping terrorismputting an end to the bombing of innocent civilians and the kidnaping of hostages, especially our own citizens-and bringing about an end to the bloody war between Iran and Iraq. When word came to me that individuals in Iran, including some members of the Government there, had asked through an intermediary in a third country for a meeting with a representative of our government, I said yes. And even though these were responsible elements in Iran that might be able to assist us in stopping the violence and possibly helping us get back the hostages being held in Lebanon, there was a risk involved. But I believed then and believe now there was a greater risk in doing nothing, of not trying. So, I gave the order to proceed. We had some notable success: There was some reduction in terrorism, and three of our hostages were released-one at a timeand others were about to follow. Then someone in the Government of Iran leaked information about our contacts with Iran to a newspaper in Lebanon. You know the rest. This effort to establish a relationship with responsible moderates in Iran came to light and was broken off. But I think you can see the purposes behind our policy: to end the war in the Middle East, to prevent Soviet expansionism, to halt terrorism, and to help gain release of American hostages. But now I want to speak to you about something else, not the policies themselves but how they were carried out. And while we are still seeking all the facts, it's obvious that the execution of these policies was flawed and mistakes were made. Let me just say it was not my intent to do business with Khomeini, to trade weapons for hostages, nor to undercut our policy of antiterrorism. And let me say again, I know the stories of the past few weeks have been distressing. I'm deeply disappointed this initiative has resulted in such a controversy, and I regret it's caused such concern and consternation. But I pledge to you I will set things right. That's what I am doing now. When our Iranian initiative came to light, I spoke to you from the Oval Office and explained it. When revelations regarding a transfer of money from Iran to those attempting to fight the Sandinista government were reported to me, they were immediately shared with you and the Congress. I then appointed a distinguished, independent board chaired by former Senator and Ambassador John Tower to review our National Security Council staff apparatus. And to ensure a complete legal inquiry, I urged the appointment of an independent counsel. They used to be called special prosecutors, and that's what they are. They just changed the title. And finally, I have stated we will cooperate fully with the Congress as they undertake their proper review. If illegal acts were undertaken in the implementation of our policy, those who did so will be brought to justice. If actions in implementing my policy were taken without my authorization, knowledge, or concurrence, this will be exposed and appropriate corrective steps will be implemented. I will continue to make all the facts known surrounding this matter. We live in a country that requires we operate within rules and lawsall of us. Just cause and deep concern and noble ends can never be reason enough to justify improper actions or excessive means. In these past 6 years we have done much together to restore the faith and confidence and respect of our people and our country. We've done so not by avoiding challenges or denying problems but when confronted with these problems dealing with them directly and honestly. We will continue to do so. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: With the New Year just a few weeks away, Washington is starting to get ready for the 100th Congress, which will be sworn in this January. The most important challenge facing that Congress will be joining with us in keeping a growing America on the road to a brighter future, the road that you and I and all Americans started on just 6 years ago. That was when we said that the way to make America grow was not by feeding government more of your tax dollars but by the way that America has always grown: through the ingenuity, energy, and determination of the American people. Together we set out to cut your taxes and cut the growth of government spending so that you could get on with the important work of building a better future for yourself, your family, and all America. We first cut tax rates with our 1981 tax cut. Since the lower tax rates in that bill took effect, America has created over 12 million new jobs. We've had 48 straight months of economic growth and one of the longest periods of uninterrupted growth in the last 50 years. And after a decade-long decline, the American family's real income has been rising again and rising faster. Yes, thanks to our first tax cut, there are more and better jobs, more new businesses, and more new opportunities in America today than ever before in our history. But that's just the beginning; because earlier this year, with your help, Congress pushed aside the special interests and the tax-and-spend crowd, rolled up its sleeves, and shaped the tools that will help you and all Americans build on that record. That's when Congress passed the new tax reform bill, which will cut the top tax rate from 50 percent to 28 percent and for 8 out of 10 Americans will mean a top rate of no more than 15 percent. For the 4 years since our first tax cut found its footing, the American economy has been climbing to the mountaintop. With tax reform, America is going to shoot for the stars. That's why I was disappointed this week to hear some talk from the new Congress that we should stop the climb, turn around, and start back in the direction we've come from. Even before they take their oath of office, some in the new Congress are talking about breaking faith with the American people and taking back part of tax reform before it has taken effect. Yes, they say that to reduce the deficit they want to keep some people's tax rates high. Well, we know where that road leads. First, they take one step towards raising taxes and then another and then another, and pretty soon every family in America is paying more to the Government again and we're back to the days of high taxes and no economic growth. Well, you can be sure I'm not going to let that happen. I hope that instead of trying to return to the tax-and-spend policies of the past, the new Congress will work with us in getting the growth of Federal spending under control. We've begun to make progress here, too. The figures are coming in now for the spending the Government is actually doing this year, and the news is good. When this year is ended, the deficit will be down by $50 billion. Yes, this year, for the first time in two decades, the Federal Government will spend less, after taking out inflation, than it did last year. That's an historic step on the road to a balanced budget, and it couldn't have happened without the Gramm-Rudman legislation. Now it's time to take a second step. On January 5th we will send next year's budget up to Capitol Hill. It'll be the Federal Government's first trillion-dollar budget request. It will be lean enough to meet the Gramm-Rudman deficit targets, but it will also meet the Government's commitments. We will be spending more than ever before in such areas as support for America's elderly, law and drug enforcement to protect America's young people, and health care for America's finestfor our veterans. And yet in the coming budget, after taking out inflation, the Federal Government will spend less in the coming year than it will this year. That will be 2 years of real falling spending. We in the administration have worked hard to meet the new, earlier deadline for sending this budget to Congress. I hope Congress will work just as hard to meet its required deadlines and not let them slip by, as has happened too many times in the past. And I hope the new Congress will take a constructive approach to this firm but fair budget. We're bound to disagree here and there, but let's work together for the good of the country to iron out our differences. The leadership of the outgoing 99th Congress gave America lower tax rates and began the process of putting the lid on spending. As we look to the new year, this is the challenge for the leadership of the incoming 100th Congress: to build on that record and help lead America into the future. I hope they'll accept that challenge. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The holiday season is a time of gift giving and merrymaking; a time when millions help churches, synagogues, and organizations like the Salvation Army and Toys for Tots provide for the less fortunate among us, a time when huge turkey dinners are cooked, parents find themselves staying up late wrapping toys, and children's eyes are filled with more and more excitement every daya time, indeed, when all the world seems taken up with plans and celebrations and family. That last word, "family," is one that I'd like to consider for a moment. To be sure, family is very much on our minds during the holidays, as children and grandchildren, parents and grandparents, gather to share the happiness of the season. We know how good it feels to be with our familieshow it warms and comforts us, how it gives us strength and joy. But I wonder whether we always give our families all the appreciation they deserve. Consider, for example, that the philosopher-historians Will and Ariel Durant called the family "the nucleus of civilization." They understood that all those aspects of civilized life that we most deeply cherishfreedom, the rule of law, economic prosperity and opportunitythat all these depend upon the strength and integrity of the family. If you think about it, you'll see that it's in the family that we must all learn the fundamental lesson of liferight and wrong, respect for others, self-discipline, the importance of knowledge, and, yes, a sense of our own self-worth. All of our lives, it's the love of our families that sustains us when times are hard. And it is perhaps above all to provide for our children that we work and save. Some have suggested that in today's world, the family has somehow become less important. Well, I can't help thinking just the opposite: that when so much around us is whispering the little lie that we should live only for the moment and for ourselves, it's more important than ever for our families to affirm an older and more lasting set of values. Yet, for all that, in recent decades the American family has come under virtual attack. It has lost authority to government rule writers. It has seen its central role in the education of young people narrowed and distorted. And it's been forced to turn over to big government far too many of its own resources in the form of taxation. Even so, the family today remains the fundamental unit of American life. But statistics show that it has lost ground, and I don't believe there's much doubt that the American family could be, and should be, much, much stronger. Just last month, I received a report on this from my Working Group on the Family, providing recommendations for giving the family new strength. Our administration will be giving these recommendations serious consideration in the days ahead. But for now we might all do well to keep our families in mind, to make certain that we don't take them for granted. For perhaps at no other time of the year are we able to enjoy our families so thoroughly or see so clearly their importance to ourselves and our country. And let us remember that in the midst of all the happy bustle of the season there is a certain quietness, a certain calm: the calm of one still night long ago and of a family-father, mother, and newborn child. Listen for a moment to the words of the Scriptures: "And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them. And they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, 'Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.' And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, 'Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.'" Now, some revere Christ as just a great prophet. Others worship Him as the Son of God. But to all, this season in which we mark His birth is indeed a time of glad tidings. So, in the midst of our celebrations, let us remember that one holy family in a manger on that still night in Bethlehem so long ago and give renewed thanks for the blessings of our own families. And, yes, let us pray for "peace on earth, good will toward men." Until next week, thanks for listening, God bless, and from the Reagan family to your family, Merry Christmas!\par
My fellow Americans: Nancy and I sincerely hope that you and your family have been enjoying this holiday season. Christmas and Hanukkah provide all of us with special moments to cherish and remember. The new year, which will be with us in just a few days, offers us a chance to reflect on the year we've been through and to set our sights for the year ahead. Having been blessed with a long life, my perspective on 1986 is different than that of many of the commentators. I believe this year, 1986, will be remembered by you for some important and long-lasting events that the political pundits don't remember or may not have noticed. 1986, for example, may have been the year when you, someone in your family, or someone you know started a small business. It's estimated that over 600,000 new businesses were incorporated this year, most of them small operations headed by men and women with a dream. With our recovery in its fourth year, economists may well point to 1986 as a year of steady growth and low inflation. To you, perhaps, that meant your take-home pay was going further, or it might have meant that in 1986 someone in your family found a job. So far this year more than 2 million jobs have been created. In 1986 a higher percentage of our population has been employed than ever before. Looking ahead, the forecasters are projecting that next year we will enjoy even stronger economic growth. They suggest that the gross national product will rise by a healthy 3.2 percent, which should translate into lower unemployment, more jobs, and higher take-home pay. Some other positive economic news portends good things ahead. We're turning the corner on the trade deficit problem. This is also the year Congress, with a little prodding from the rest of us, finally got its act together and reformed the tax system and lowered the rates. It was widely reported that tax reform was an impossible dream. Working together we showed the cynics our system still works. And also this year we've made some tangible progress on some other things I know you're personally concerned about. Our battle against the evil of drug and alcohol abuse, for example, has scored some impressive victories. Record amounts of illegal drugs have been intercepted before reaching the street; local, State, and Federal agencies are cooperating as never before. And beyond enforcement, people from every walk of life are joining our crusade to help others achieve a drug-free life. You could well remember 1986 as the year when a friend or loved one, with all of us doing what we could to help, straightened up his or her life and got off illegal drugs or alcohol. One thing history will certainly record is that this was the year that Americans brought some of the top leaders of organized crime to justice. We began our offensive against the mob early in the administration; and it's taken time, patience, and hard work. But this year, after long arduous preparation, we moved against the kingpins of racketeering. Last month, after a dramatic 10-week trial, 8 crime leaders-heads of what's called the commission-were convicted. We can all be proud of those law enforcement professionals responsible for this major defeat of the underworld. A fine writer and social commentator from the American Enterprise Institute named Ben Wattenberg has written a book entitled "The Good News Is the Bad News Is Wrong." Well, in it he pointed out that while daily news reports in recent years have focused on negative events and predictions of gloom and doom, our country and our people actually have been moving forward, problems solved, opportunity opening. Living in a time of great change as we do, it's easy to be apprehensive, especially about events on the international scene. The Iran controversy has certainly been a disappointment for all of us; nonetheless, I am committed to getting all the facts and fixing whatever went wrong. And 1986 has been a good year for the cause of human freedom and good for the cause of world peace. This year relations between the United States and the Soviet Union advanced. When I met with General Secretary Gorbachev in Reykjavik, it was clear the differences between our positions on arms reduction had narrowed considerably. In the year ahead, both sides are in a good position to build on what has been accomplished. As the song puts it, it was a very good year. Well, Nancy and I hope 1986 was a very good year for you and wish you an even better 1987. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Now that the new year is here and the holidays are just about over, Nancy and I, like you, are getting ready to return to work; and for me that means that in just a few days I'll be sending Congress my proposal for next year's Federal budget. You know, when you look at a budget, all you see are long rows of numbers. They go on for pages, and they're not very exciting. But those numbers always add up to something, and it's not just a surplus or a deficit. No, it's also a plan, a hope, a vision of what America is and of where America is going. Six years ago we began our country on the path to greater growth and opportunity. We said it was time to put the days of tax and spend in the past and trust less in government and more in America's families, communities, and values. Some called the values we talked about radical and even revolutionary. Well, you know, I had to smile when they called it the Reagan revolution, because, yes, those values may have been revolutionary, but they were from a revolution much older than methe revolution that started with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, the revolution continued by every American who ever plowed the land or worked in a factory, an office, or a store, or built a business or stayed home and built a family. Those have been the values that shaped this budget as well. What are they? Well, one is that government shouldn't tax away a man or woman's incentives to work, save, and invest, and that taxes should begin only after a family has earned enough to live on. That's why this is a "no-tax-increase" budget. Last year America pushed aside the special interests and passed a tax reform bill that was prosavings, proinvestment, profamily. By next year, as a result of tax reform, the top tax rate will be 28 percent; the standard deduction and personal exemptions for your family will have gone up by 60 percent; and most families will pay a rate of no more than 15 percent. But now some in Congress are saying they'd like to take part of this away, even before it goes into effect. They'd rather raise your taxes than cut their spending. Well, not if I have anything to say about it. This budget cuts spending and leaves your family's paycheck alone, and that's another important value. Like your family, the Federal Government should live within its means. This year we're taking an historic step toward that goal, because the Federal Government is doing less real spending than last year, something that hasn't happened since 1973. That's rightnot in almost 14 years. And with the coming year's budget, we plan to make it 2 years in a row. By the way, Congress wouldn't have achieved these spending cuts without the discipline of the Gramm-Rudman law. That's why those who say do away with Gramm-Rudman are just plain wrong. Gramm-Rudman has begun to put the monster of big spending into a cage, and we won't let that monster out. The budget I'm proposing will meet the Gramm-Rudman target. It will bring the Federal deficit within the range of our normal peacetime experience, and it will do this without shortchanging important commitments. We will spend more than ever for America's elderly, for law and drug enforcement, for AIDS research, for health care, and for air traffic safety. And in one vital area, defense, we'll be stopping a dangerous slide. For the last 2 years defense spending, after inflation, has dropped, even while our adversaries spent more. To let this decline continue would endanger every family in America and world peace as well. With this budget, we'll give defense a modest but important boost, the minimum I believe is necessary to ensure America's peace and security. But while we'll be spending more in many areas, we'll also be looking at the invoices more carefully than ever. In defense, in health care, and many areas, we've asked: Are we getting what we think we're paying for? And where the answer is no, we plan to make changes, and those changes are reflected in this budget. All of this will require the help of Congress. That's why I was disappointed to hear that the new Democratic leadership had declared that their first priority is to pass the budget-busting clean water bill that I vetoed last year. Well, now, I'm in favor of clean water, but the only thing clean in this bill is its name. It spends billions more than is needed. If the Democratic leadership decides to push this bill, they'll be sending a clear signal that they've sided with those who want to raise your taxes and take the lid off spending. I am willing to work with congressional leaders for a reasonable bill. But I have a special message to the new Congress: You can't have it both ways. You cannot decry deficits and then pass budgetbusting legislation. The American people expect us to work together to eliminate the deficit. I remain ready to do so. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As you may have heard, earlier this week I paid a visit to the hospital for minor surgery. Now my doctors tell me that I'm coming along just fine, and that's exactly how I feeljust fine. Come to think of it, with the approach of the Super Bowl, I can't resist telling you that it won't be long before I'm suited up and back on the playing field. With just 2 years to go in our administration, that makes this the beginning of the fourth quarter. So, take it from an old sportscaster: Don't leave your seats; the game ain't over! Soon I'll appear before Congress to give my State of the Union Address, outlining our agenda for 1987 and beyond. We saw earlier this week that one part of our agenda, continued economic growth, is already well under way. On Thursday the Dow Jones Industrial Index closed above 2,000 for the first time in history; indeed, the Dow has gone up more in the past 4 years than it did in the previous 20. New figures showed that the Producer Price Index is at an excellent zero percent; while unemployment dropped to just 6.6 percent, the lowest level in nearly 7 years. And with Congress back in town, another part of the agenda, the Federal budget, has already become an important piece of business here in Washington. Just this weeka full month earlier than usualour administration submitted to Congress our proposed budget for 1988. This budget reflects sound policy, both foreign and domestic. Mindful of America's world role on behalf of freedom, the budget calls for a strong and innovative national defense, including full funding for our historic Strategic Defense Initiative. After all, it was our strength, not talk, that led to my meetings with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva and Reykjavik. In an effort to make our economy more competitive with those of other nations, our budget sets out important steps, including training for dislocated workers, the return to the private sector of certain institutions now owned by the Government, and more funding for research and development. And to set an example for the entire country, I've asked Federal agencies to continue to improve their own productivity. This budget also reflects what accountants might refer to as sound financial management, but what you and I would call common sense. To begin with, the American people understand that it's hard enough to support a family and make ends meet without the Government constantly raising taxes. So, this budget contains no tax increase whatsoevernone. Regarding the Federal deficit, our budget calls for prudent cuts in programs that have proven wasteful or are no longer neededcuts that can be made without harming the poor or elderly. In this way, our budget meets the deficit-reduction goal set out last year in the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation. In other words, this budget will keep the Government on a path of shrinking deficits that would see the Federal budget balanced in just 4 years. In the less than 1 week since we submitted this budget, some in Congress have already begun fumbling in the backfield. There are constant charges that the Federal deficits are somehow the fault of our administration. If Congress had approved reductions we have asked for, the deficit today would be dramatically smaller. During the past 5 years, Congress appropriated almost $67 billion more than I requested for domestic discretionary programs. Now, there's another point to be made here, perhaps even more important. In the past two decades, defense spendingthe Federal Government's first responsibility-has fallen as a proportion of our gross national product, while domestic spending in real terms has nearly doubled, pushing total Federal spending as a proportion of the gross national product from under 20 percent in 1967 to almost 24 percent today. In other words, big government has been claiming more and more of the goods and services produced by your own hard work. In the words of a recent Wall Street Journal article, those in Congress who want big government to get even bigger "are asking the public to ratify, finally and conclusively, the rising domestic spending levels Congress has legislated ... a process that every Reagan budget has attempted to reverse." Almost as if to illustrate this point, in the 4 days that Congress has been in session, it has already considered a huge budget-busting water and sewage treatment bill that would cost $18 billion. Our administration remains ready to work with Congress in fashioning this budget, in particular to consider any budget proposal that meets the three basic requirements of a strong national defense, a shrinking Federal deficit, and no tax increase. But I have to be frank: If the big spenders want a fight on the budget, they'd better strap on their helmets and shoulder pads. In this fourth and final quarter, I'm determined to go out there and win one for the American people and, yesand one for the Gipper. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to begin with an expression of gratitude to all who sent get-well cards and letters after my brief hospital stay 9 days ago. Of course, some of my favorites came from young people. Eight-year-old Colin MacDonald, of Holbrook, New York, told me that he liked my speechesexcept when they preempted his favorite TV shows. And second-grader Jennifer Carl, of Canton, Ohio, was kind enough to draw a picture of me in bed, Nancy standing at my side, serving me a bowl ofwell, of purple soup. Nancy wants the recipe. Jennifer, it's true that my doctors insist I stay home and take it easy for the next several weekswhich I willbut I want you to know that I'm out of bed, feeling fine, and looking forward to getting back on a full schedule. Jennifer, Colin, and to all of you, Nancy and I extend our heartfelt thanks. But to get down to business: This week I met our arms negotiating team, headed by Max Kampelman, before they returned to Geneva to begin a new round of talks with the Soviets. We discovered that all of us shared a sense of anticipation; a feeling that after Reykjavik, where Mr. Gorbachev and I found new areas of agreement, the prospects for genuine arms reductions were better than at any time in years. And we agreed that underlying these hopes for progress toward a lasting world peaceunderlying, indeed, the Soviets' return to the bargaining tablewas the knowledge that, at last, the United States could once again deal with the Soviet Union from a position of strength. Think back just 6 years: Our Navy had dwindled from more than 1,000 ships to less than 500. Many of our planes couldn't fly for lack of spare parts. And our men and women in uniform were seeing their pay in real terms shrink while pay in the private sector rose. Well, I believed on first taking office, as I do today, that the defense of this Republic is not just one of the duties of the Federal Government, it is the first duty. So, with bipartisan congressional support, we took action at once on the rebuilding of our nation's defenses. Since 1980 we've increased the number of Army divisions from 16 to 18. We've reactivated 4 battleships and purchased 124 new ships for the Navy, including 2 new aircraft carriers and 21 high-technology Aegis-class cruisers and destroyers. We've purchased over 2,500 new tactical fighter aircraft. And just as important, we've more than doubled our vital stocks of spare parts and munitions, stocks that were dangerously low in 1981. Pay and benefits for our Armed Forces has increased substantially. And perhaps most heartening, the proportion of recruits holding high school diplomas has risen from less than 70 percent in 1980 to more than 90 percent today. At the same time we've been spending the needed funds, we've found important new ways to spend that money better. The Defense Department, for example, has greatly expanded competitive bidding and is this year submitting to Congress the first-ever 2-year defense budget to replace the old, inefficient, year-by-year process. Add to these the changes contained in last year's Goldwater-Nichols legislation, and those set in place at the recommendation of the Packard commission, and you have perhaps the most dramatic defense reforms since the formation of the Department of Defense itself. All of this is having a profound effect. Morale in our Armed Forces has soared. All the world has taken note that the United States has reasserted its role on behalf of freedom. And in the past 6 years, not 1 inch of territory has fallen to Communist aggression; while one nation, Grenada, has been set free. Now Congress and our administration have the opportunity to continue the vital work of rebuilding our defenses, already so well begun. But I must tell you that we cannot take continued progress for granted. In 1985 and '86 Congress cut the defense budget sharply. Needless to say, we hope that won't happen again. But with up-down, up-down funding, it does look as though some want to turn the Congress' defense budget into a kind of crazy roller coaster. Yet this up-down funding is inefficient and costly, taking money out of the taxpayers pockets. And there could be no thrill in going downhill very fast when what would be going down would be our ability to defend itself. So, I appeal to Congress: In the days ahead, let's work together to provide 2-year defense funding that is both adequate and steady. And I appeal to you, the American people: Join me in letting Congress know that nothing matters more than our freedom and peace. And therefore, the new strength America has achieved in recent years must not be undermined, but built upon. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This coming Tuesday I'll travel up Constitution Avenue from the White House to the Capitol to deliver my State of the Union Address. The House Chamber that night will be crowdedMembers of the House itself, Members of the Senate, the Justices of the Supreme Court, Cabinet officials, the diplomatic corpsall will have come. Television lights will flood the rostrum from which I will speak, providing added moment, a reminder that the audience will extend far beyond the Chamber to you, the American people, and indeed to much of the world. In a moment I'd like to share with you some thoughts about the agenda I'll outline to the 100th Congress on that historic night. But if you'll permit me, first I'd like you to join me in considering the State of the Union Address as an important American tradition, a tradition that on Tuesday night will represent the first great public event marking this the bicentennial year of our Constitution. It's the Constitution itselfarticle II, section 3that mandates the President to inform Congress regarding the state of the American Union and to recommend measures that he considers, in the Constitution's words, "necessary and expedient." President Washington appeared before Congress personally each year to offer his account of national problems and prospects. In 1801 President Jefferson was eager to show how different America was from Britain, where Parliament was opened by the monarch, so he put the practice of appearing in person to an end, substituting instead a written message. Presidents continued to send Congress written messages for more than a century, until in 1913 Woodrow Wilson revived the practice of delivering the message in person. Since Franklin Roosevelt seized upon the idea with his customary relish, no President has missed the opportunity to present his proposals before Congress face-to-face. But whether delivered in person or in writing, these annual messages represent one of our nation's basic historical textsa body of writings that show our development from a fledgling Republic to a great bastion of freedom; that present our Presidents as individual men, struggling as best they could with the issues of their day; that in our timeour own timeprovide continuity, a sense of the proud history that we as Americans have inherited. In 198 Presidential messages to Congress certain themes reappear. National security-there is Washington's urging that the Republic remain strong; for, in his words, "To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace." Economic growththere is President Fillmore's satisfaction in 1852 at all that we as a free people had accomplished: "The population has almost quadrupled. Our boundaries have been extended. Our territory is checkered over with railroads and furrowed with canals." And then the great theme, the national experiment in human liberty-President Monroe wrote in his final message that "Our institutions form an important epoch in the history of the civilized world." And in President Lincoln's second message, we read of America as "the last, best hope of Earth." Freedom, Lincoln stated, is a way that is "plain, peaceful, generous, justa way which, if followed, the world will forever applaud, and God must forever bless." On Tuesday night I'll follow the men who preceded me in office by addressing each of these themes. Of our national security, I will once again stress that no duty of the Federal Government is more important than the defense of this Republic. I will reassert the importance of the American virtues of boldness and innovationvirtues embodied in our Strategic Defense Initiative. In addressing economic matters, I will announce initiatives regarding jobs, education, and continued economic growth-measures designed to keep America competitive throughout the world and provide new jobs and opportunities here at home. And, yes, I will address the urgent need for the Federal Government to control its own spending and to do so permanently by amending the Constitution. And in speaking about the great theme liberty, I will state that our national experiment remains proud and successful. Now we must extend liberty to others, providing, in particular, steady and substantial aid to freedom fighters in Nicaragua and elsewhere around the globe. All this we must do, I will argue, to live up to the best within ourselves and our history, to take our place beside those who have gone before in keeping this Republic "the last, best hope of Earth." Thanks for listening, and until Tuesday night, God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: A few days ago, when I arrived in the House Chamber for the State of the Union Address, I also hand delivered a formal legislative message. Today I thought I would share with you some of our goals and objectives for this Congress. In the State of the Union Address, I spoke of our quest for excellence, especially in education. To achieve this, I've suggested to Congress that we target our Federal resources on the neediest schools and youngsters, that we set a goal of dramatically raising the literacy levels in America by the year 2000, and that we permit greater flexibility and innovation in federally funded, bilingual education programs. Education, of course, is not just schooling, and it is not just for the young. We'll be proposing to Congress a new program to help workers displaced by the rapid changes going on in our economy. Our billion-dollar effort will provide the education and training needed to help an estimated 700,000 additional workers each year restructure their lives to keep them and America competitive in world markets. For less fortunate families, we're also proposing a new emphasis on employment and training through a program we call Greater Opportunities through Work, or GROW for short. Complementary to that, we are asking that $800 million be spent for improving the skills of children from welfare families, giving these youngsters a road map to a life out of poverty. To keep our country on the cutting edge of change, I am proposing to Congress that we double the budget of the National Science Foundation over the next 5 years and that we establish a number of new science and technology centers based at U.S. universities, centers that would reflect a partnership in basic research between government, business, and the academic community. Since 1981 our budgetary support for basic research has grown 47 percent in real terms. We are committed to keeping our country leading the way in the era of science and technology. Meeting the competitive challenges of today and tomorrow won't be easy. Vice President Bush, who led the deregulation drive early in the administration, is taking a fresh look to see what can be done, from a competitiveness standpoint, to clear away unnecessary Federal regulation and paperwork burdens. One thing that will help is coming to grips with the costly liability insurance spiral. Legislation to do that, while still providing the necessary protections for consumer and health safety, will soon be proposed. One of our greatest challenges is to accomplish our goals while still reducing the level of deficit spending that so threatens our future. Now is the time for discipline and restraint in the halls of power. You might remember, in the State of the Union I asked Congress for a line-item veto, ratification of a balanced budget amendment, and reform of the budget process. If we're to put our fiscal house in orderand that's essentialit requires fundamental, structural change. And I'm willing to work with Congress to get it done. One of our priorities, one of the top, continues to be the fight against drug abuse. There've been claims that we've backed off our commitment this year. Nothing could be further from the truth. With all due respect to those who suggest otherwise, our commitment to the battle against drugs is stronger than ever. Since 1981 the funds budgeted for this effort have been tripled, and some of the funds already appropriated will actually be spent next year. So, even though next year's antidrug budget request is a bit lower, more funds will actually be spent in the battle than ever before. On another point, you should also be aware that the amount spent on education in America has increased every year of our administration. Instead of taxing it away from local people and giving it back to them along with Federal guidelines and controls, we've left that revenue in local coffers and in your hands, so you the people, working with your local school boards, can determine how your children will be educated. As for higher education, the Federal Government will be spending less, but with the changes we've proposed, fewer dollars are needed to help the same number of students. The changes we've made in these last 6 years have kept us on a steady course, have maintained the peace, and promoted healthy growth in our economy. The state of the Union is good, and together we're going to keep it that way. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week I wrote to the Nation's Governors asking them to come to the White House to discuss welfare reform when they visit Washington later this month. On Monday I'll be speaking to a group of concerned citizens about our welfare reform ideas. And later in the coming week, I'll be releasing the Domestic Policy Council's report, a study and series of proposals entitled "Up From Dependency." All these initiatives are based upon my conviction that welfare reform is not just important but vitalvital to our economic well-being; vital, indeed, to our self-respect as a nation. Permit me to take a few moments this afternoon to share with you why I believe this is so. The sad truth is that our welfare system represents one long and sorry tale of disappointment. From the 1950's on, poverty in America was on the decline as economic growth led millions up toward prosperity. Then, as the Federal Government began to spend billions on welfare programs, poverty stopped shrinking and actually began to grow worse. For the first time in our nation's history, millions of Americans became virtual wards of the State, trapped in a cycle of welfare dependency that robs them of dignity and opportunity. With our economic success of the 1980's, the poverty rate has begun to shrink, but the problem of welfare dependency remains. No one doubts that welfare programs were designed with the best of intentions, but neither can anyone doubt that they've failed-failed to boost people out of dependency. In the fight against poverty, we now know it's essential to have strong families-families that teach children the skills and values they will need in the wider world. How many self-made men and women in America owe their success to the strength of character given to them by hard-working, loving parents? Yet when we ask whether our welfare system has encouraged family life, we must answer: far from it. Among the welfare poor today, families as we've always thought of them are often not being formed. Since 1960 the percentage of babies born to unmarried mothers has more than tripled. And too often the mothers themselves are only children15, 16, 17 years oldwho, with the birth of their babies, find all the responsibilities of grownups thrust upon them. As for the fathers, much of the time they're nowhere to be found. We're also coming to understand that our welfare system weakens community values and self-esteem. As a lack of skills prevents our young people from obtaining the jobs and careers they want, their hope for themselves and their neighbors disappears. To reverse this terrible cycle of despair, we must build on the vitality and strength in our communities. We must work with our young people as they strive to achieve the basic educational and work skills they need for a bright future. To do this, we must make dramatic changes in the old, unworkable government programs. With less than half of the billions now spent on welfare, we could give every poor man, woman, and child enough money to lift them above the poverty line. My friends, I believe we're too great a nation, too generous of heart, too bold in finding solutions, to permit this waste of lives and money to continue. In seeking solutions, we should return to the basic values that helped build this nation: faith in families, faith in individual dignity and work, and faith in our Federal system of government. During my meetings and speeches this coming week, I'll be setting out our proposal for welfare strategies that tap that faith. Washington may have failed to find solutions to poverty and welfare dependency, but many of our 50 States and hundreds of community leaders are making progress, due in part to the new leeway we've given them in the last 6 years. Now, they're ready with many more promising antipoverty ideasif only our complex welfare system will allow them greater freedom to succeed. I will ask Congress to approve a process that gives them that freedom. We know the solutions to welfare dependency must come from States and communities, and those of us here in Washington must have the courage to let them try. Our welfare system will continue to help those who can't help themselves. We have learned that we must provide the pathways and tools that allow our needy to escape dependency and create a better life. As I've said before, the only true measure of a welfare program's success is how many people it makes independent of welfare. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This afternoon I'd like to spend a few moments discussing a decision I made this week, a major decision that's likely to affect virtually every family in America. Our administration will propose to Congress a comprehensive plan to cover catastrophic illnesses. A catastrophic illness can strike anyonethe young, the old, the middle aged. The single distinguishing characteristic is simply this: Whatever form it takes, a catastrophic illness costs moneylots of it. The problem has grown in recent years as we've achieved medical breakthroughs enabling Americans to live longer lives. Come to think of it, I myself have already lived some 22 years longer than the life expectancy at the time of my birth. But longer lives for Americans involves the challenge of seeing to it that our older citizens have the financial security they need. With our new proposals, I'll be asking the Congress to join our administration in meeting that challenge. In brief, this is how the proposals break down: First, we're asking Congress to legislate acute catastrophic illness insurance for Medicare beneficiaries, most of whom are 65 and over. Under this proposal, Medicare itself would be amended to provide unlimited Medicare coverage. Moreover, our proposal would establish a limit of just $2,000 for out-of-pocket Medicare expenses that can presently run into the many thousands. And we can do all this by adding just $4.92 to the Medicare monthly premium. This is a pay-as-you-go program, a program that requires no tax dollars. Now, what does this mean in practical terms? Well, the answer is simple: peace of mind for some 30 million older Americans. Suppose, for example, that someone over 65 fell and broke a hip. And then suppose that, while still recovering, she contracted pneumonia. A broken hip and pneumoniathat could mean two acute care hospitalizations within the same year, care that would cost thousands. Under Medicare as it stands today, the patient herself would have to pay a significant portion of these costsand all but the very wealthy would be wiped out. But under our proposal, Medicare itself would pay most costs above $2,000, giving the patient financial security. Regarding the cost of long-term care for older Americans, there are no easy answers. But in its second part of our initiative, our proposal calls for the Treasury Department and others to find ways of helping families meet these costs. Options we will examine include, for example, favorable tax treatment for savings accounts established to meet the costs of long-term care. Of course it's too early to predict what will work best, but the important point is that our proposal calls on the Government to start working. I'm confident that, working with Congress and private insurers, we can find a new and innovative way to ease the financial burden of long-term care. But our proposal isn't just aimed at older Americans. In part three of our initiative, we will take steps to improve catastrophic illness coverage for all Americans, regardless of age. Under our plan, the Federal and State governments would work together to promote the formation of what are known as risk pools within the Stateshelping to provide insurance for those who could not otherwise obtain insurance. We will encourage the States to use their authority to require catastrophic coverage as part of the health insurance available through employers. And we'll work with Congress to change certain requirements, giving the States more flexibility in the management of Medicaid programs. And as in many matters related to health care, education is important. Under our plan, the Federal Government would work with the private sector to make widely available information about the risks, costs, and financing options of various forms of catastrophic illness insurance; and to encourage every American to plan for his health care in the future. All of us have family, friends, or neighbors who have suffered devastating illnesses that threatened their financial security. For too long older Americans, in particular, have faced the possibility of sicknesses that might not only wipe out their own savings but those of their families. Our proposal would make available catastrophic medical insurance for every American eligible for Medicare. It would take steps to provide catastrophic illness coverage for Americans of all ages. And it would begin the search for ways to meet the costs of long-term care. As I said a moment ago, what it all comes down to is peace of mind. And I think you will agreeit's worth it. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This past Tuesday I gave a major address on our administration's proposal to make our nation more competitive in the world economy. Then on Thursday I submitted those proposals to Congress. American competitivenessit's an issue that involves all our hopes for keeping this country a land of opportunity in the years ahead. Of course millions of us have the feeling that, recently, American products haven't been measuring up in the world marketplace quite the way they should. According to one poll, 9 out of 10 Americans are worried that the United States is losing its competitive edge. But it's important to move away from general notions like these to define the problem as precisely as we can. Looking back we know that, virtually throughout our history, the United States has grown more competitive with the rest of the world, not less. In the century and a third between our founding and the First World War, we went from a minor agrarian nationa country for the most part of small towns and little farms scattered among vast reaches of virgin wildernessto an industrial power of the first rank, with great cities and factories and a workforce that was large and highly skilled. By the end of the Second World War, the United States stood alone, an economic giant that none of the war-ravaged powers could even begin to match. Since the war the United States has undergone economic expansion, growing economically still stronger; but so have other nations. The countries the Second World War laid low have in recent decades not only rebuilt to prewar levels but gone on to play major roles in the modern world economy. This is as it should be, as we Americans would want it to be. It's no good being the tallest one around just because everybody else is fiat on his back. And we went to great lengths with the Marshall plan and other programs, specifically to help other nations get back on their economic feet. But, yes, this new prosperity on the part of other nations does involve certain challenges. By the way, I'd like to stress that I used the word "challenges," not "threats." Threats are something you need to beat back; challenges are something you can rise to. Today we see these economic challenges everywhere, challenges like the high quality of so many foreign goods and improved marketing techniques for selling foreign goods here at home. The strong dollar of recent yearsin large part a reflection of the underlying health of our economyhas added a challenge of its own, making foreign goods less expensive in America and American goods more expensive abroad. Yet perhaps the most distressing shortcomings involve the aspect of American life that will most directly affect our future-education. Compared to students in the Soviet Union, American high school pupils spend over 20 percent fewer hours each year in school. Compared to students in Japan, American pupils receive significantly less instruction in those subjects of special importance to so many areas of economic growthmathematics and the sciences. And we've cut tax rates and held down the growth of government spending during these past 6 years. America has begun to meet these challenges. Education test scores have risen. Inflation has fallen to its lowest level in 25 years. Our economy has created some 13 million jobs. In manufacturing, labor productivity is rising at a rate almost 50 percent greater than the postwar average. To give just one example of improved quality: Our auto industry is retooling and offering extended warranties. And in the words of management expert Peter Drucker: "We have made the biggest demographic change any country has ever made in terms of labor force participation of women. It's an incredible achievement." An incredible achievement indeed, but one to build upon, not take for granted. And that's why in my address on Tuesday I put forward an array of proposals, including worker retraining, redoubled efforts to open foreign markets to American goods, and new research initiatives to spur innovation in science and technology. This quest for excellence must be a great national undertaking that challenges Americans to achieve their bestthat challenges workers to take greater pride in their product; businessmen to become even more enterprising and innovative; and educators to instill in our children a willingness to strive for that magic word, "excellence." So, I call on Congress to put our proposals at the top of its agenda and to act upon them promptly. Working together I'm confident that we'll go on to still more jobs and even greater prosperity. After all, when it comes to world competitiveness, we Americans have quite a history behind us. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When I asked John Tower, Edmund Muskie, and Brent Scowcroft to investigate the Iran affair, my attitude was: Let the chips fall where they may. I told you, the American people, that I wanted all the facts to come out. Well, the Board's effort is a demonstration of my commitment to find out what was wrong and fix it. Two days ago, as you know, the Tower board presented me with their report. I'm still studying it and continuing to consult with members of my Cabinet, the Congress, and other advisers. After a full evaluation, I'll speak to you again, midweek, about this issue in detail and about how we can move forward from here. I also want to note that, after 6 years of outstanding service beginning as Secretary of the Treasury and then as Chief of Staff, Don Regan indicated to me some time ago that he would like to return to private life. So, yesterday I regretfully accepted his resignation. Don's been a friend and a valuable and trusted member of the administration. I'm pleased that Howard Baker has agreed to serve as my Chief of Staff. He's served our country with distinction as majority and minority leader of the Senate and a leader of the Republican Party. I've known Howard for years and have enormous respect for his abilities and talents. He'll be here next week, and we're going to be wasting no time preparing for another 2 years of aggressive work. And I want to talk to you today about one of the most important issues we'll be confronting. Over the last 2 years, as I campaigned steadily for tax reform, I spoke to you often about the need to rid our tax system of the special interests, those interests who put their advantage above the good of the Nation as a whole. Well, with bipartisan support we achieved a remarkable victory with tax reform, lowering rates and making it fairer for all Americans. But now that we've done that, another part of our government stands out in even starker contrast. I'm talking about our budget process, which today is as rife as it ever was with favoritism and special pleading. My friends, this problem is crying out for reform. We got the special interests out of the tax code, and now it's time to get them out of the budget process. Until then, our economic prosperity will never be safe. The pressures for more and more Federal spending will grow until they burst through all remaining constraints. We'll be back where we were 7 years ago with Federal spending running wildly out of control. And you know what will happen then: As surely as night follows day, huge new tax burdens will be thrust on the American people. Inflation will come back in force. And our economic expansion and the millions of jobs we createdwell, that'll only be a memory. That's not a happy scenario, and we must do everything we can to keep it from occurring. As you well know, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings is today the most important check on congressional overspending. Its guidelines promise us a gradual phaseout of the deficit and a balanced budget by 1991. When it was passed in 1985, it was hailed by both Democrats and Republicans as a legislative triumph. Finally, Congress seemed to be serious about getting its budget house in order. But now some in the Congress want to back away from their commitment to cut deficit spending. Some have even suggested that we cancel the second round of tax rate cuts scheduled to take place in 1988 as part of our tax reform bill. Well, let me say this as plainly and simply as possible: That's just not acceptable. We must keep our promises to the American people. There's no going back on either Gramm-Rudman-Hollings or tax reform. I have submitted a budget that meets the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit limit for fiscal year 1988. It's a good budget, a sound budget. It will keep us on track toward eliminating deficit spending and help build the foundation for a continued economic expansion with low inflation, high job creation, and a reduced trade deficit. So, don't believe them when they say it can't be done. Congress can keep its Gramm-Rudman-Hollings commitment if it wants to; it only has to want to. And that's where you come in. Speak out loud and clear. It's time to rise above politics and self-interest. It's time once and for all to end deficit spending. That's why I have long supported passing a constitutional amendment that would make balanced budgets mandatory. Then we wouldn't have to fight this battle all year, every year. America could greet the future confident that the monster of deficit spending was locked away forever in its cage. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk with you today about a matter that means a great deal to all of us and to people all over the world, one of the keys to world peace: relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. You may remember that before I first met with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva almost a year and a half ago I said that better relations between our two countries depended on four thingsarms reduction agreements, yes, but also progress on human rights in the Soviet Union, regional conflicts, and people-to-people exchanges. Secretary of State Shultz will be traveling to Moscow next month to pursue these issues and others with Foreign Minister Shevardnadze. In the last few months we've seen movement in some of these areas. In one area, however, we're particularly disappointed. I mean the area of regional conflicts. The Soviets continue to occupy Afghanistan. They continue to supply billions of dollars of weapons to regimes like Libya, Syria, Cuba, Nicaragua, Vietnam, Ethiopia, South Yemen, and Angola, and to supply weapons to groups like the PLO. As long as the Soviets keep this up, East-West tensions will continue. And that's why it is in the interest of world peace to convince the Soviets to stop it. The free world today has an opportunity to do just that. And around the world, in many of the countries I've just mentioned, there are people fighting for freedom against Soviet-sponsored oppressors. We can help them. Take Afghanistan. Soviet policy there is clearly headed for failure. The freedom fighters are gaining in strength and unity. The world community is giving them more and more support. The puppet regime that the Soviets installed 7 years ago seems to be coming apart. In the face of these mounting problems, the Soviets now claim they want to get out but refuse to give a short timetable for withdrawing. And they've escalated military actions against Pakistan, which is unacceptable. They say they want a political settlement and "national reconciliation," but they've made no more than cosmetic changes in their puppet regime. It's up to us to make these points to them as strongly as possible. Peace will come only when there is a government in Kabul that enjoys the authentic support and confidence of the Afghan people. Once the Soviets agree to genuine self-determination and an immediate withdrawal, the war could end quickly. The longer the Soviets refuse such a solution, the harder it will be for them to find a way out. And now, take Nicaraguamuch closer to home. The whole world wants to see a peaceful solution there, too. But the heart of the problem in Nicaragua is that, with vast Soviet and Cuban help, the regime there stifles democracy, has crushed the free press, persecutes religious believers, and is consolidating totalitarian control. In the face of this, a democratic resistance is growing. It has inspired the largest, fastest growing, volunteer peasant force in Latin America in almost a century. Its fighters and leaders are largely from poor families. They fight because they've seen Communist oppression firsthand. They are struggling for democracy. To abandon them would betray our own principles. A democratic solution will require real negotiations between the Sandinista regime and its opposition, including the armed resistance. Any diplomacy that excludes the resistance can't solve the problem. The trend in Central America indeed, in all of Latin Americais towards democracy. Today four of Central America's five countries are democracies. Nicaraguans want democracy, too. Their current rulers broke their promise to the Organization of American States that they would lead Nicaragua to democracy. And now the Nicaraguan people want them to deliver on that promise. Democracy, progress, and security-those are our goals in Central America, and they're goals the American people support. Last year Congress took a stand for democracy in Central America. This week I asked Congress to renew that commitment. I sent Congress an economic aid package to strengthen Central America's four democracies. I am also asking Congress to let go forward the remaining money they approved last year to support the freedom fighters in Nicaragua. We must continue to stand by these brave young men and women. Though Afghanistan and Nicaragua are thousands of miles apart, solving their problems depends on the very same thing: a chance for them and their neighbors to live without fear of aggression, a chance for their people to choose their own destiny. How much safer the world will be when the Soviet leaders see Americans standing behind such a firm policy for peace. Perhaps the Soviets will even start to spend less on adventures overseas and more on improving life at home. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This afternoon I thought I'd brief you on important changes that have taken place recently in our administration and on our agenda for the months to come. To begin with, every administration has its own national security team, the group of officials who assist the President in shaping our nation's foreign policy. With the recent addition of Senator Howard Baker as my Chief of Staff, Frank Carlucci as national security adviser, and the nomination of Judge William Webster as the new Director of Central Intelligence, my own national security team is once again complete. Secretary of State Shultz and Secretary of Defense Weinberger have been members of that team for some time, and let me say now that no President has ever been better served by two such men on his National Security Council. They've given long years of committed service to this Nation in a variety of important positions in government; and the Nation can be grateful, as I, for their intellect, dedication, and integrity. They're also men of strong conviction, men who've never hesitated to give me their unvarnished views on national security issues under consideration. They're men willing to speak up, regardless of the strength of opposition or the natural bureaucratic tendency to compromise or go along. And that's why I consider them so valuable. In the case of the Iranian arms sale matter, both Secretary Shultz and Secretary Weinberger advised me strongly not to pursue the initiative. I weighed their advice but decided in the end that the initiative was worth the risk and went forward. As we now know, it turned out they were right and I was wrong. But they discharged their responsibilities as my advisers and as my subordinates, and I'm enormously grateful that I will continue to be receiving their views in the months ahead, as we move forward with our agenda. And in these coming months, that word "agenda" will be an important one. You see, I've made these important changes here at the White House to see to it that we're back in control and moving ahead with all that you elected me to accomplish. On the domestic side, our agenda will include changes in the Federal budget process and wide-ranging welfare reforms designed to bring to an end the cycle of poverty that has trapped so many needy Americans. And in foreign policywell, let me put it this way: America faces great problems in the world but even greater opportunities. We see a chance for significant progress in arms reduction talks with the Soviet Union, provided we maintain a steady course and bargain hard. Yet, at the same time, Soviet adventurism must be dealt with. Central America, in particular, remains of absolutely vital importance to the United States. And here the Congress has crucial decisions to make about whether our nation will truly support democracy and help resist tyranny in a region so close to our own borders. My own commitment remains rock-solid; I will fight any effort to cut off support for the Nicaraguan freedom fighters and consign them to death or defeat. In domestic and foreign policy alike, what it all comes down to is this: We've got a job to do, and for the next 2 yearswith your help and supportwe intend to do it. Permit me now to turn to two other matters of great importance. First, last year's tax reform meant that early this year millions of Americans found themselves filling out W-4 forms that were downright confusing. I know; I had to fill one out myself. Well, we heard your complaints and worked with the IRS to come up with a new, much simpler W-4 form that will be available in about a month. So, the American people took on the tax man and won. Second, earlier this week, our administration announced reforms at the Food and Drug Administration that will make it easier for victims of AIDS and other life-threatening diseases to obtain new, experimental drugs. This step to roll big government back just a little bit further could very well mean less pain and suffering for thousands of seriously ill Americans. It's a measure, in other words, that's humane in every sense of the word. And now, if you'll permit me, a final word about a subject that just happens to be close to my Irish heart: St. Patrick's Day. Since the potato famine in the middle of the last century, millions of sons and daughters of Erin have come to America seeking a better life. But of course, whether Irish or not, virtually all of us as Americans trace our ancestry back to immigrants from distant lands, men and women who came to America with a firm willingness to work, asking only freedom. And so, I just have to believe that this coming Tuesdaywell, as Americans, we'll all be entitled to celebrate. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This weekend marks the beginning of spring. Already, here at Camp David, the crocuses are pushing up out of the ground. From now on, the days will be longer than the nights, the air will be getting warmer, the grass greener, and soon the countryside will be in full bloom. There are all sorts of positive signs in our economy, too. Job creation hasn't slowed a bit. Last month alone we created 337,000 jobs. Employment has reached record highs. Poverty is declining. Tax rates are falling, and family income is rising. Yes, indeed, spring is here, but there's one abiding problem that could plunge us right back into economic winter. That problem isn't in our economy. I'm afraid to say that problem is in the United States Congress, and it's called the budget process. The budget process is, indeed, a sorry spectacle: deadlines delayed or missed completely, huge continuing resolutions that camouflage the worst kind of special interest spending. Budget process? It's more like a magic show. It's wink and blink and smoke and mirrors and pulling rabbits out of hats, but almost all that ever comes up are designs to hide increases for the special interests. Before I get into the need for budget reform, I want to speak to an issue that's frequently misunderstood. Now, we met our deadline and submitted to Congress a fiscal year 1988 budget that meets the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction goal without raising taxes. It's a sound budget, the result of hard work by our Cabinet and agency heads, and they're the people who run the programs. A priority item in this year's budget is the continuation of our battle against drug abuse. We have tripled spending on drug programs since 1981. Well, last year we added $900 million for the purchase of helicopters, airplanes, and certain facilities. Now we're charged with cutting next year's budget by $900 million, proving that we aren't sincere about our crusade against drug abuse. Well, this was a one-time expenditure we don't have to repeat every year. As a matter of fact, we will still be spending some of that $900 million in the coming years, but it won't show in the '88 budget. In other words, the car is bought; now all we have to do is buy the gas and change the oil. The fact that the drug issue has been so misrepresented demonstrates how politically charged the whole budget issue is. And that all makes reform difficult, but not impossible. There's a movement afoot in Congress, led by Senator Pete Domenici and other responsible legislators, to introduce some badly needed order into the budget process. One idea that deserves consideration is a 2-year budget cycle. A 2-year cycle for the defense budget has been initiated, and we'll be looking into the use for the total budget. Another real improvement would be individual appropriations bills that Congress delivers on time. Last year Congress missed allyes, allits deadlines and greeted me with what they call a continuing resolution at the end of the year. Now, that document was over 1,200 pages long and weighed 18 1/4 pounds. Now, that's what you call heavy reading. It contained the appropriations for practically our entire government, and I either had to veto it and close down the government or approve the whole thing, pork and all. The third reform would give me greater power to veto waste through so-called enhanced rescission authority. Now, this is much like the line-item veto, except that my recommendations for spending cuts could be overturned by a simple majority vote in either House of Congress. In other words, no sneak-by, back-door spending. If Congress wants certain spending, they can have it; but they have to stand up, be counted, and vote for it. Yet another step in the right direction is credit reform. Last week we sent up to the Congress our Federal Credit Reform Act of 1987. This bill would enable the public, the Congress, and the administration to evaluate accurately the costs and benefits of direct loans and loan guaranteescosts that are now the subject of guess, speculation, and surmise. We intend to work with those in Congress who are striving to put us back on the road to budget sanity. And just as we've done with credit reform, the administration will propose additional elements in what will be a comprehensive budget-process reform package. These reforms are important to you because they're a key to continued economic growth and job creation. It's time to put politics aside and do what the Congress knows has to be done sooner or later anyway: give the American people a budget process that controls spending, a budget process we can be proud of. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
I went up to Capitol Hill this week where many Congressmen were wearing a button with the number "108 in '88" on it. And therein lies a story, and today I'd like to tell you about it. The group was the House Republican Conference, and the number stood for the 1988 fiscal year's deficit target: $108 billion. Now, before you anticipate lots of Washington talk about budgets and deficits, don'tas we used to say in the old days of radiotouch that dial. Believe me, this issue concerns your job and America's prosperity; it's about keeping inflation low and making sure government doesn't take any more of your take-home pay. You see, in 1985 the Congress made a solemn pledge to you, the American people, when it decided on $108 billion. After years of wild spending and the accumulation of a trillion-dollar debt, Congress finally agreed to a long-term plan to shrink the Federal budget and, over the course of 5 years, to actually stop deficit spending. Yes, that's right! Under this legislation, called Gramm-Rudman-Hollings for the three Senators who proposed it, the Federal Government has actually adopted a feasible plan for not spending more than it takes in for balancing the Federal budget. You could feel the planet shaking! But this, of course, came only after a long, hard struggle. When we came to Washington in 1981, the momentum of the Federal spending juggernaut seemed unstoppable; and year after year Congress, through the higher inflation caused by Federal borrowing or through higher taxes, saddled the American people with the bill. But over the last 6 years, we changed the terms of the entire debate. For the first time, even the big spenders in the Congress were talking about the deficit like the problem that it is. What a breakthrough that was to those of us who remember Congressmen and economists who actually thought we could spend ourselves richthat's just like the fellow who thought he could drink himself sober. So, when Gramm-Rudman-Hollings was adopted, it broke decades of bad tradition, and many were hopeful Congress would keep its promise and hold to the deficit targets. But you know Congress and spending. Only this week the Congress sent me a highway construction bill that was loaded with pork-barrel projects. I haven't seen so much lard since I handed out blue ribbons at the Iowa State Fair. It was $10 billion overboard. I got out my veto pen and used it fast. I told the Congress to pare away the waste, to clean this bill up, get it back down to me within the week, and I will sign it within the hour; because America does need a highway bill in time for spring construction and one that restores authority for the 65-miles-per-hour speed limit. But not this one, not a budget-busting handout to the special interests that ultimately you, the American worker, will have to pay for. And that's just the point: Gramm-Rudman-Hollings was not just a pledge for fiscal responsibility but a pledge to keep America's economy growing and creating new jobs. We need to remember that one of the reasons the economy is prospering and the financial markets are responding is the message the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings plan sends to potential investors and entrepreneurs, a message that says it's safe and smart to invest in our economy, to create new jobs, because government is going to hold down spending and prevent inflation and tax increases from returning, So, you do have a tremendous personal stake in this budget battle and Congress' pledge to hold down the deficit. I've said so often that the reason things changed in America is because those of you at home made those in Congress who didn't see the light on economic issues at least feel the heat. Well, I'm going to be needing your help again. It would be a shame to lose our momentum now; on inflation and taxes and economic growth, we've accomplished so much. In fact, in the future I'll be talking about another development in saving tax dollars and making the Government more efficient. Budget Director Jim Miller and his deputy Joe Wright have been briefing me on the results of our government-wide management project, a project that's saved our citizens over 600 million man-hours in filling out forms and redirected $84 billion in Federal money away from wasteful overhead into useful service and purchases. We've eliminated 30,000 pages of Federal regulations. But progress on this front or any other is gravely jeopardized. I need your help now to tell Congress to honor their pledge to the American people and get the highway construction bill under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings limits. We must never return to the bad old days of higher spending and runaway inflation. So, let's keep the number on the button; remember "108." Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: President John F. Kennedy once said of Canada and the United States that: "Geography has made us neighbors. History has made us friends. Economics has made us partners. And necessity has made us allies." Well, tomorrow I'll be headed north to visit the people of Canada and to hold 2 days of meetings with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. As neighbors, allies, partners, and friends, we've got much to discuss. As nearby neighbors, the environment has always been a high priority for both our countries. Since the 1909 Boundary Waters treaty, Canada and the United States have worked together to protect border lakes, rivers, and streams. We can be proud of what we've accomplished on this account, especially in protecting the Great Lakes, and this year we'll determine if more needs to be done. Air pollution, another major environmental concern, has diminished in North America since the U.S. passed the pioneering Clean Air Act of 1970. However, Canada and the United States continue to worry about the consequences of acid rain. In March 1986 Prime Minister Mulroney and I endorsed the report of our special envoys on this problem, and last month I directed our administration to undertake three major steps to carry out the envoys' proposals. The first is to seek the full government funding recommended by the envoys$2.5 billion over 5 yearsfor demonstration of innovative pollution control technology. Industry will be encouraged to invest at least as much during the same period. Second, the Secretary of Energy is in the process of establishing a panelwith participation by the Environmental Protection Agency, the State governments, the private sector, and the Government of Canadato advise him on pollution control projects. Third, I've also asked the Vice President to have the Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief examine local, State, and Federal regulations that might inhibit the deployment of new emission control technologies and other innovative emission reduction measures. We can be grateful that on these cross-border environmental questions our two countries are working with each other, rather than against each other. The same is certainly true when it comes to peace and security. As allies, the United States and Canadian Armed Forces are partners in NATO and in NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, as well as in peacekeeping operations around the world. The Western alliance has kept the peace these last 40 years, but it isn't without cost. The Mulroney government has pledged higher defense spending to make certain Canada is carrying its part of the load, a move which NATO and the United States Government welcome. We've also been able to count on the Mulroney government to support our efforts to reach agreements with the Soviet Union to reduce the number of nuclear weapons threatening mankind. Our consultations with Canada on this subject are thorough and frequent. Similarly, our cooperation and coordination in the fight against international terrorism stand as examples to the rest of the world. Our record on the economic front is similarly impressive. Canada and the United States, emphasizing deregulation and invigoration of our private sectors, have recorded two of the best rates of economic growth and job creation among industrialized nations during this expansion. When it comes to economics and trade, Canada and the United States speak as partners. A full onefifth of our foreign trade is with Canada. We are each other's largest trading partners. In fact, we have more trade with the Canadian Province of Ontario than with any other foreign nation. Our economic relationship may already be the largest and most dynamic in the world, and we're working to make it even better. Our goal is a free trade agreement that will remove tariffs and nontariff barriers between us. Spurring U.S.-Canadian trade and investment will improve our economies and strengthen our competitive ability in world markets. Although much hard bargaining lies ahead, we are optimistic that a comprehensive plan, mutually beneficial and advantageous to both sides, can be hammered out this year. Canada and the United States, as you see, share much more than a common border; we share a democratic tradition, and we share the hopes, dreams, and aspirations of free people. When I arrive in Canada tomorrow, I will take the best wishes of the people of the United States to our good friends the people of Canada. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Greetings from California. As you might have heard on the news, yesterday at the World Affairs Council in Los Angeles, I delivered a major foreign policy address concerning our relations with the Soviet Union. As I explained in that speech, I believe there's reason for optimism about the chances for better relations with the Soviets, but we also face some tough, contentious issues that require realism and strength of will on our part. Secretary Shultz is leaving today for Moscow, where he will meet with Foreign Minister Shevardnadze and other high-echelon Soviet officials. In light of revelations concerning Soviet espionage activities, this meeting will be much weightier than expected. I've instructed Secretary Shultz to make Embassy security a major agenda item during his discussions with his Soviet counterpart. Recent events have made it clear that the Soviets have gone beyond the bounds of reason in their efforts to compromise the security of our current Embassy in Moscow. Unfortunately, no one is suggesting that Soviet espionage is not a fact of life, but what seems to be emerging is the picture of an intense espionage strategy that reflects a callous disregard for the consequences of such actions. At the site of our new Embassy, sensors and listening devices have been discovered in the materials for the new building. This prompted me to announce this week that our diplomats will not be occupying our new Embassy unless and until I am assured that it is safe and secure. Likewise, the Soviets will not be permitted to move into their new Embassy in Washington, DC, until a simultaneous move can be made by both countries. What the Soviets have done is throw offtrack a bilateral process that has been moving forward since 1969, when an agreement was made, after long negotiations, about new Embassy sites. Over the years, with several of my predecessors, various agreements and understandings were reached, culminating in construction in 1977 of the new Soviet complex and 1979 of the new U.S. complex. Both the spirit and the letter of those understandings and agreements have been violated. We do not take this lightly. I have asked former Defense Secretary Melvin Laird, under the general authority of the Secretary of State, to chair a top-level panel to investigate security at our Embassy and to give me a frank assessment. Parallel with this, my Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, under Ambassador Anne Armstrong's leadership, will be examining security and counterintelligence procedures used at our Embassies throughout the world. Both will make reports to me through the National Security Council. The condition of our new Embassy structure in Moscow is being evaluated. A determination will be made whether our new Embassy will ever be secure or whether it's necessary for us to destroy and rebuild it. Secretary Shultz will make certain the Soviets understand that if we're to improve relations such espionage tactics are totally unacceptable. All this is certainly in stark contrast to the openness and friendship I found on my own diplomatic mission to Canada. Sunday and Monday I visited our northern neighbors and friends. My discussions with Prime Minister Mulroney were warm and, yes, productive. We spoke seriously about the environmental challenge of acid rain, for example, and we're going to do something about it. We also discussed our current efforts to tear down barriers to commerce and establish free trade between our peoples and countries. The enthusiastic reception I received from the Canadian Parliament suggests that a free trade agreement between Canada and the United States is an idea whose time has come. I pledged to Prime Minister Mulroney and the people in Canada that we're going all out to make this visionary proposal of the Prime Minister a reality. We'll do it for the prosperity and jobs it will create in both our countries; but just as important, it will be an example to all the world that free and fair trade, and not protectionism, is the way to progress and economic advancement. What we seek is a world where all countries treat each other with the same spirit of benevolence and trust as is true between the United States and Canada. Well, that's all for now. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week we commemorate Easter and Passover, annual events of profound religious significance. It's appropriate that during this holy time our Secretary of State journeyed to the Soviet Union on a mission of peace, and I'm pleased that the word from that trip is good. While in Moscow, Secretary Shultz presented a new American proposal and made constructive progress toward reaching an agreement to reduce our respective nuclear arsenals and establishing better relations between our countries. Building a more peaceful world is our goal. Secretary Shultz reports to me that headway was made in his discussions with his Soviet counterparts on several issues. He made clear, for example, that Americans take human rights seriously, as is evident during this week of religious import. We cannot and will not close our eyes to the suppression of religious freedom, be the victim a Christian, a Jew, or other religious faith. Secretary Shultz demonstrated this when he represented all of us in a Passover dinner, a seder, as it is called, with Soviet Jews in Moscow. Secretary Shultz noted that the favorable resolution of several human rights cases is a good sign. There are many cases of divided families and separated spouses that can be easily resolved, and we'll be watching. In our contacts with Soviet leaders, we've also pushed for the settlement of regional conflicts that have brought destruction, misery and death to the peoples of Afghanistan, Angola, Cambodia, Nicaragua, and elsewhere. If an overall lessening of tensions is expected between the United States and the Soviet Union, the Soviets and their clients will have to show a readiness to accept peaceful, negotiated solutions instead of prolonging bloodshed. The issue of embassy security was forcefully raised, as well. Secretary Shultz let it be known that recent Soviet espionage outrages have gone beyond reason. Today the United States and the Soviet Union have an opportunity to take tangible, step-by-step progress toward a more peaceful world. This is in both our interests. Nowhere is that more evident than in our talks about reducing the number of nuclear weapons threatening mankind. An actual reduction in the number of nuclear weapons would be an historic first, an accomplishment both sides could build upon for further progress. Secretary Shultz reports that his talks in Moscow left him optimistic that an agreement to reduce the number of longer range INF missiles is within reach. Significant issues remain, and our negotiators will intensify their efforts to clear them away when talks resume in Geneva later this month. When Mr. Gorbachev and I met in Reykjavik last year, we reached an understanding on some of the basic tenets of an agreement to reduce intermediate-range missiles. In the intervening months, we've been encouraged by signs of Soviet willingness to remove the roadblocks that have been holding back progress. In Moscow Secretary Shultz sought to clarify the Soviet position. He reaffirmed the basic structure of the Reykjavik formula. And both governments agreed to the principle of on-site verification. Shorter range INF missiles, weapons that are of direct concern to our European allies, were also part of the discussions in Moscow. Both sides of the table agree that a limit should be set on the number of these shorter range missiles and that a global framework will be the basis of discussion and that the principle of equality will govern. Secretary Shultz has briefed our allies on the details and has given me a full report on their initial reaction. Direct consultations with our allies will continue on further negotiations and plans. We must look at this issue in a calm, careful, and deliberate manner. When I return to Washington, I will meet with the bipartisan congressional leadership to review this week's progress. It's my hope that the process now underway continues to move forward and that Mr. Gorbachev and I can complete an historic agreement on East-West relations at a summit meeting. Finding the pathway to a safer, more peaceful world will take unity among free peoples as well as all the courage, tenacity, and hard-nosed bargaining power we Americans can muster. Secretary Shultz was scouting out the way in Moscow. Our message is: We are proceeding. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Prime Minister Nakasone of Japan will be visiting me here at the White House next week. It's an important visit, because while I expect to take up our relations with our good friend Japan, which overall remain excellent, recent disagreements between our two countries on the issue of trade will also be high on our agenda. As perhaps you've heard, last week I placed new duties on some Japanese products in response to Japan's inability to enforce their trade agreement with us on electronic devices called semiconductors. Now, imposing such tariffs or trade barriers and restrictions of any kind are steps that I am loath to take. And in a moment I'll mention the sound economic reasons for this: that over the long run such trade barriers hurt every American worker and consumer. But the Japanese semiconductors were a special case. We had clear evidence that Japanese companies were engaging in unfair trade practices that violated an agreement between Japan and the United States. We expect our trading partners to live up to their agreements. As I've often said: Our commitment to free trade is also a commitment to fair trade. But you know, in imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal with a particular problem, not begin a trade war. So, next week I'll be giving Prime Minister Nakasone this same message: We want to continue to work cooperatively on trade problems and want very much to lift these trade restrictions as soon as evidence permits. We want to do this, because we feel both Japan and the United States have an obligation to promote the prosperity and economic development that only free trade can bring. Now, that message of free trade is one I conveyed to Canada's leaders a few weeks ago, and it was warmly received there. Indeed, throughout the world there's a growing realization that the way to prosperity for all nations is rejecting protectionist legislation and promoting fair and free competition. Now, there are sound historical reasons for this. For those of us who lived through the Great Depression, the memory of the suffering it caused is deep and searing. And today many economic analysts and historians argue that high tariff legislation passed back in that period called the Smoot-Hawley tariff greatly deepened the depression and prevented economic recovery. You see, at first, when someone says, "Let's impose tariffs on foreign imports," it looks like they're doing the patriotic thing by protecting American products and jobs. And sometimes for a short while it works-but only for a short time. What eventually occurs is: First, homegrown industries start relying on government protection in the form of high tariffs. They stop competing and stop making the innovative management and technological changes they need to succeed in world markets. And then, while all this is going on, something even worse occurs. High tariffs inevitably lead to retaliation by foreign countries and the triggering of fierce trade wars. The result is more and more tariffs, higher and higher trade barriers, and less and less competition. So, soon, because of the prices made artificially high by tariffs that subsidize inefficiency and poor management, people stop buying. Then the worst happens: Markets shrink and collapse; businesses and industries shut down; and millions of people lose their jobs. The memory of all this occurring back in the thirties made me determined when I came to Washington to spare the American people the protectionist legislation that destroys prosperity. Now, it hasn't always been easy. There are those in this Congress, just as there were back in the thirties, who want to go for the quick political advantage, who will risk America's prosperity for the sake of a short-term appeal to some special interest group, who forget that more than 5 million American jobs are directly tied to the foreign export business and additional millions are tied to imports. Well, I've never forgotten those jobs. And on trade issues, by and large, we've done well. In certain select cases, like the Japanese semiconductors, we've taken steps to stop unfair practices against American products, but we've still maintained our basic, long-term commitment to free trade and economic growth. So, with my meeting with Prime Minister Nakasone and the Venice economic summit coming up, it's terribly important not to restrict a President's options in such trade dealings with foreign governments. Unfortunately, some in the Congress are trying to do exactly that. I'll keep you informed on this dangerous legislation, because it's just another form of protectionism and I may need your help to stop it. Remember, America's jobs and growth are at stake. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's been a busy week here in Washington with the issue of international trade on the front burner. Legislation that would erect a new trade barrier was voted on by the House of Representatives, and here at the White House, I discussed trade issues at length with Prime Minister Nakasone of Japan, one of America's most important trading partners. These developments are important to all of us, because one of the gravest threats to economic expansion and American jobs is protectionist legislation that sets up trade barriers and higher tariffs. By sparking retaliation from foreign governments, this approach ultimately ignites a trade war, shuts down foreign markets, and stymies economic growth at home. Unfortunately, the House of Representatives decided to go down that track, but there's a positive twist to the vote. You see, in an encouraging bipartisan showing, a good many Democrats joined with Republicans in opposition to an especially bad amendment. This week's vote in the House indicates we have a strong hand in keeping bad proposals like this from gaining final passage in Congress. Believe me, I would like to sign sound trade legislation, but I will not sign bills that close down markets and shut off expanded job opportunities. Now, with regard to my discussions on the trade issue with Prime Minister Nakasone, the news was more positive. I've already stressed that we're against protectionism and in favor of free trade, but there's another side to this: Free trade is also fair trade, and that means not permitting other nations to take advantage of our trade policies by erecting barriers of their own. Now, I recently ordered increased duties on certain Japanese products coming into this country in response to Japan's inability to enforce our agreement on semiconductor trade. This action and our entire trading relationship with Japan was one of the issues Prime Minister Nakasone and I discussed at length. We are of one mind about avoiding protectionist steps on either side of the Pacific. I made it clear that I hope our ongoing review of data related to the semiconductor agreement will provide evidence of compliance and allow us to remove the recently imposed restrictions on Japanese products as soon as possible. The Prime Minister reiterated his own government's commitment to honoring our trade agreements and working together for free trade in the Pacific and throughout the world. Prime Minister Nakasone also agreed to measures to stimulate the Japanese economy, which should increase demand for U.S. products in Japan. Let me turn now to another issue on the docket this week, one that's related to trade: the budget and excessive spending. Our trade deficit reflects the fact that this nation is spending more than its income, and a key to solving this problem is to get deficit spending by the Federal Government under control. Two years ago we took a major step in this direction when the Congress agreed to a bill called Gramm-Rudman-Hollings that gradually reduces deficit spending and eventually leads to a balanced budget. But unlike the trade issue, the developments this week on this front were not encouraging. The Senate, for example, adopted certain procedures that make it far easier to exceed the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings spending targets, targets they agreed to just 17 months ago. Maybe your reaction is the same as mine: Here we go again. Congress just keeps passing higher and higher spending bills, all the time ignoring its promises to the American people under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings: a promise to stop enacting a hodgepodge of excessive spending bills and come up instead with a comprehensive budget that keeps deficit spending under control. As I've been saying right along, the problem is the congressional budget process itself. Congress just refuses to exercise any budget discipline. That's why it's essential that the President be given the power to step in and cut out the waste. I need what the Governors of 43 States use toused, I should say, to accomplish this: the line-item veto, a way of reaching into these massive congressional spending bills and cutting out the wasteful items. And, of course, Congress is also showing that we really need a Constitutional amendment that would mandate a balanced budget. If Congress can't discipline itself, then the American people must say no. Believe me, the events of this week show again how important both these initiatives are. So, that's the news on this week. Let me just take a moment now to look forward to next week and another important issue on our domestic agenda: illegal drug use. We'll be announcing a White House Conference for a Drug Free America. It's going to give us a chance to look at the progress we've already made in this crusade and then map out a plan for the future, and that's good news! Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: My message today is taped so I can attend the memorial service for a great patriot and dedicated public servant, my good friend, Bill Casey. Before I get into the substance of my remarks, I would also like to wish all of our nation's mothers a happy Mother's Day tomorrow. I've often thought that our mothers are the most hardworking of all Americans. Raising a family, as we all know, is a 24-hour-a-day duty. How often it was our mothers who picked us up when we fell, comforted us when we were sick, schooled us in our faith, and gave us the security and courage to go out and face the world. So let me just say to all America's mothers: Thanks, Mom, for a job well done. Turning to business in Washington, the Congress is in the midst of working on the defense budget, and I must say quite frankly that the indications up to this point are alarming. Too often many Members of Congress treat defense like it was someone else's responsibility. It's always the first thing to be sacrificed, to be canceled or cut, or delayed, even while wasteful boondoggles and pork-barrel spending sail right through untouched. Now the progress we've made in the last 6 years rebuilding our defenses is once again being put in jeopardy by the shortsightedness of some in Congress. For 2 years in a row, Congress has cut defense appropriations below previous levels in real terms. The current 1987 defense budget is actually 6 percent smaller than the one Congress itself approved for 1985, yet some actually argue that it, too, should be gutted. Add to this the fact that some have attached irresponsible amendments to defense bills that would tie my hands and undercut my ability to conduct arms reduction negotiations with the Soviets. I think you'll agree it's time Congress took stock of itself and thought seriously about its responsibility for maintaining our national security. When we were elected in 1980, our defenses were in a dangerous state of disrepair. Years of neglect had produced planes that couldn't fly for want of spare parts, ships that couldn't leave port, a Rapid Deployment Force that was neither rapid nor very deployable and wasn't much of a force. At the same time we were confronted with a massive Soviet buildup. While our defenses were cut to the bone, the Soviets steadily increased military spending, shifting the military balance heavily in their favor. Even today the annual Soviet output of nuclear missiles, tanks, and other ground equipment is still twice that of the United States and NATO combined. Such a severe and dangerous imbalance can't be redressed in a few years. It takes a steady, determined effort. Now, some will tell you that we're spending too much on defense, that defense spending is responsible for the deficit, but that charge is belied by the facts. The great surge in spending has been on the nondefense side of the budget. In fact, the increase in nondefense spending, including interest, has been nearly twice as great as in defense spending. My budget proposal for the next 5 years asks for a modest 3-percent real growth in defense. This is the minimum we need for a stable, consistent growth in defense that will maintain the progress we've made. Also of grave concern are the many amendments that threaten our arms reduction negotiations with the Soviets. Our talks have already progressed to the point that, in the last round, the United States tabled a draft treaty on intermediate nuclear force reductions, and just yesterday in Geneva, we tabled a draft strategic arms reduction treaty as well. For the first time in history, we seem to be on the verge of major arms reductions. Still, some in Congress would pull the rug out from under our negotiators with some legislation, such as that dealing with our strategic defense program and nuclear testing. Congress would be handing the Soviets free of charge what they can't win at the bargaining table. This is no way to run America's foreign policy. Let me be clear: If Congress passes legislation that endangers our arms reductions or undermines our national defense, I will have no choice; I will veto it. For the sake of our national security, however, I hope we can reestablish a bipartisan consensus on national security and meet our defense needs so we can keep America free and strong and at peace. Finally, I'd just like to say a few words about the hearings that started in Congress this week. We're all eager to get the facts out before the American people. We hope Congress will be thorough and also expeditious so that we can get on with the business at hand. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's been a great deal of talk lately about trade, some of it suggesting we should protect American companies from foreign competition. I don't believe the American people are afraid of competition. That was made clear to me when I visited a Harley-Davidson plant recently. It's a great story; let me tell you about it. Not that long ago, it was being said that Harley-Davidson, America's preeminent manufacturer of motorcycles, couldn't keep up, that the company was running out of gas and sputtering to a stop. Well, one of the worst mistakes anybody can make is to bet against Americans. At Harley-Davidson the workers and management got together and decided not only to compete but to win. With unity of purpose and a commitment to excellence, they cut the hours of work needed to make a motorcycle by onethird. Their inventory was reduced by Two-thirds. And they tripled the number of defect-free machines they shipped. Productivity was improved. Prices were kept under control; on some bikes, they even lowered prices. While doing all this, they expanded their product line from 3 models 10 years ago to 24 this year. Today, Harley-Davidson is once again a leader in developing new motorcycle technology. They're now selling more and more bikes on virtually every continent of the Earth. In fact, they are the only major motorcycle manufacturer in the world to have increased production last year. And, yes, they have also increased exports. These Americans, confident in themselves and their product, have asked that their special tariff be removed so that they can meet their competition head on. Current law provides companies like Harley-Davidson breathing room by applying temporary tariffs. Unlike some of the broad, sweeping protectionist legislation being bandied about in Washington, the idea is, ultimately, to increase trade between nations, not impede it. When you hear talk about a tough trade bill, remember that being tough on trade and commerce, the lifeblood of the economy, will have the worst possible consequences for the consumer and the American worker. First, it will drive up the price of much of what we buy. But worse than that, it could drag us into an economy-destroying trade war. I'm old enough to remember the last time a so-called tough trade bill passed Congress. It was called Smoot-Hawley, and it helped give us, or at least deepened, the Great Depression of the 1930's. Well, the way up and out of the trade deficit is not protectionism, not bringing down the competition, but instead the answer lies in improving our products and increasing our exports. The Government should work to create the conditions in which fair trade will flourish. We should be trying to foster the growth of two-way trade, not trying to put up roadblocks, to open foreign markets, not close our own. As I told them at the Harley-Davidson plant, it's time to gun the engines, not put on the brakes. Well, after visiting the Harley-Davidson people, it's hard not to have confidence that, in the years ahead, America is going to be even more competitive, more aggressive, and more productive. We can meet the challenge and bring the trade deficit down. And the same is true of that other deficit we face. Each year our government has been spending more than it receives in tax revenues, pushing up the Federal debt. Some elected officials would solve the deficit spending problem simply by taking money out of your pockets via tax increases. Well, that would be unfair to you and could well knock the legs out from under our economy. I believe the more responsible course, the fairest approach, is to get Federal spending under control. This year total Federal spending is projected to increase only 2 1/2 percent over 1986, well below the rate of inflation. The U.S. Government will command less of the overall economy than it has since 1981, nearly a full percent of gross national product less than last year. But the budget and other legislation now being considered by the Democratic Congress threatens to undo the progress that we've made over the last 6 years. They would increase spending for a wide array of programs and raise taxes to reduce the deficit. Well, that's not my idea of deficit reduction, and I don't think it's yours, either. This is not just an issue for Washington power brokers. It is something all of us should be concerned about, and I hope you will let your representatives know where you stand. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
Nancy and I had a sad duty yesterday but one that also had its proud moments. We traveled to Mayport, Florida, to pay tribute to the young men of the U.S.S. Stark, 37 of whom were killed last Sunday after an attack on their ship in the Persian Gulf. Yesterday we saw the bravery of the families of these young men. Despite their terrible loss, their courage was a tribute to the valor of their fallen sons and husbands. But, as Lincoln noted long ago, at such moments there really are no wordsthe deeds of our heroes are their own best testimony to their love for our nation, and for our people. We can take some comfort, though, in knowing that the Stark's mission was a vital one for us as a free people. Since 1949 American ships have patrolled in the Gulf, an area that is a vital strategic and economic crossroad for the nations of three continents, an area that in the hands of a hostile power would be a chokepoint of freedom. And that's why we owe the crew of the U.S.S. Stark and their brave families such a deep debt of gratitude. It's a debt that should be on all of our minds this Memorial Day weekend as we recall those who have fallen in our nation's service. In addition to remembering these young men and all the others whose struggle and sacrifice protected this nation, we celebrate this weekend another moment when brave men and women worked to make our country, one nation indivisible. Exactly 200 years ago delegates from 7 of the Original 13 Colonies met in Philadelphia to begin work on forming a new government. It marked the beginning of that famous miracle at Philadelphia, a miracle that brought forth perhaps the most enduring document or instrument, I should say, of human government ever known: our Constitution. Over the years, historical and legal scholars have continued to marvel at its wisdom and prudence. In some mysterious way it seemed to provide for every contingency; it set up a structure of government strong enough to maintain national unity but flexible enough to change with the times. One part of our Founding Fathers genius was their provision for amending the Constitution. They knew they had created a good document but not a perfect one. In fact, even two centuries ago, some of them, especially Thomas Jefferson, were troubled by one omission: the lack of a limitation on public borrowing by the Federal Government. They knew from firsthand experience how tyranny abused the fiscal powers of government, how excessive borrowing and heavy taxation led to inflated currencies and economic hardship. Well, even in their reservations about the Constitution the Founding Fathers were perceptive and wise. I think most of you know how badly out of control Federal spending has gotten in recent years; today the national debt is $2.25 trillion. In 1985 the Congress tried to do something about its excessive spending by passing a bill called Gramm-Rudman-Hollings that put deficit spending on a steady decline until we reached a balanced budget in the early 1990's. But lately, Congress has been returning to its old ways and forgetting the solemn promises it made under this law. That's why I'm one of those Americans who has always believed a constitutional amendment mandating that Congress balance the budget is the answer to what ails us. And we've tried to get such an amendment through the Congress so that the State legislatures could vote on it. This reluctance by the Congress has inspired a number of Americans to try another method provided for in the Constitution: a constitutional convention, one with delegates from each State who could propose a balanced budget amendment and then send it on to the State legislatures for approval. Only two more States are needed to call such a convention. And believe me, if the Congress continues to balk at passing the balanced budget amendment, I think the drive for a constitutional convention will pick up steam. So, this Memorial Day, as we think of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for our nation, we should not forget to also reflect on our own duties, to the way of life, and the system of government for which they died. Certainly, wasting our national wealth and burdening future generations with mountains of debt does not keep faith with those who have struggled and sacrificed to begin a new form of government here on our shores. And I hope you'll do something else, as well. Keep especially in mind the brave sailors of the U.S.S. Stark. Do me a favor, won't you: Whisper a prayer for them and for their families, that God may bless them and their nation which they so nobly served and for which they so nobly died. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: When we got to Washington 6 years ago, we set out to tackle the tough fundamental challenges to America's future. One of the toughest was drug abuse. Today I'd like to give you an update, an administrative report, if you will, on this issue. Since 1981 Federal spending on drug abuse programs has tripled; it is now nearly $4 billion, and we've included virtually every major Federal agency and department in the effort. To consolidate our initiatives and make certain the fight against illegal drugs is a well-managed and effective undertaking, this March I established the National Drug Policy Board. This Cabinet-level body, led by Attorney General Ed Meese and Secretary Otis Bowen, has developed a plan which will add new vigor and a more comprehensive approach to our crusade against drug abuse. The strategy is aimed at coordinating the wide range of antidrug activities going on in our country. Education, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, and research to reduce the demand for drugs as well as investigations, intelligence, interdiction, prosecutions, and international programs to reduce the supply of drugs to our citizens are all part of the same battle. The plan would designate a lead agency for each category of antidrug abuse authority. This means that one Federal agency will be the focal point for ensuring that all other Federal agencies are doing everything they can to stop illegal drug use. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services will lead on the treatment and rehabilitation issues, while the Department of Education will do the same for school programs. This approach is simple, straightforward, and avoids the temptation of adding another layer of bureaucracy. Much of what we do at the Federal level is aimed at choking off the supply of illegal drugs. With the assistance of Vice President Bush, we're continuing to make tremendous progress in seizing drugs crossing our borders; with the Customs Service and the Coast Guard working more closely together, we'll seize even more. We arrest drug traffickers and send them to prison. With the Drug Enforcement Administration, FBI, and the U.S. Attorneys working more closely together, we'll be even tougher on those who traffic in drugs. But attacking the suppliers is not enough. As long as there is an illegal market for narcotics, the drug lords will find a way to meet the demand. That's why we cannot ignore the other half of our strategy. We need to keep up the pressure to prevent drug use. We want no new users, and we want those who are using drugs to stop. We should all be concerned about the competitiveness of our national economy. Last fall I announced a broad antidrug plan which included the goal of a drug-free workplace. At that time, I signed an Executive order requiring drug testing for selected Federal workers in critical positions. Many companies, including more than onethird of the Fortune 500, already have a testing program in place. Drug testing, when done properly, can have dramatic results. Ask anyone in the Armed Forces. Through mandatory drug testing and a well-run, antidrug campaign, we have achieved a 67-percent reduction in the use of drugs across the board by our military. We need to achieve these kinds of results in our schools, as well. Under the National Drug Policy Board plan, Secretary Bill Bennett will continue to lead the campaign for drug-free campuses. We owe it to our kids to do our very best to protect them against this menace. And that's why part of our plan will also focus on high-risk youth, those young people with serious drug problems. Drugs pervade every part of our society, and the United States isn't the only one confronting this problem. In June we will be participating in a United Nations conference in Vienna to spur international commitment to battle illegal drugs. Of course, well-organized and coordinated Federal action is only part of the solution. State and local governments play an indispensable role through community school boards, hometown treatment and rehabilitation programs, as well as enforcing of law. Most of all, however, we need the active involvement of the American people in developing a national attitude of intolerance to illegal drugs. Nancy was asked for advice by a young student worried about what to say when approached by drug users and dealers. She told her the answer was simple: Just say no. Together, we can deal with this threat to our families and country. We can help our loved ones and friends. We all need to speak with one voice: Say no to drugs in the school; say no to drugs in the workplace; say no to drugs in the home. Together, say yes to a drug-free America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
I'm speaking to you from one of the most beautiful cities in the world, Venice, Italy, where I'll be meeting soon with the other leaders of the seven largest industrialized countries of the free world. It's time for our yearly summit conference on international economic issues. Now, all of thisforeign leaders talking economics in the city of canals and gondolasmay sound a bit distant from your daily concerns, but take it from me, the issues we'll be discussing next week directly affect your lives and your future. That's because continued economic expansion and growth throughout the world is crucial to our prosperity at home. When I attended my first summit back in Ottawa in 1981, the global economy was in grave danger. We had inflation running at 10 percent in industrialized countries, not to mention high interest rates, excessive tax burdens, and too much government everywhere. Worse than all of this, there was no clear consensus among world leaders about how to set ourselves back on the road to recovery. In the 6 years since that conference, the United States has made tremendous progress. With the American economy leading the way, we showed what can be achieved with economic policies based on less government and more personal freedom. As we reduced the taxes, cut inflation, and brought down interest rates, we demonstrated that economic growth can be vigorous and sustained. So, too, the world leaders in Venice next week can look back on a solid record of accomplishment. Today inflation remains low, while interest rates are moderate, and prospects are favorable for growth to continue for a fifth year. So, you see, we did find that consensus for economic renewal and growth, a consensus that relied not on government but the dynamism of free peoples. But there are challenges ahead, and what we do next week to meet those challenges will have a direct impact on all Americans. Those of you who listen to these broadcasts will know, for example, how often I've stressed the threat that high tariffs and other trade barriers pose to economic progress. Some of us who lived through the hard times of the 1930's can tell you about that danger. When one nation decides to erect these barriers, it leads inevitably to retaliation by other nations. Soon the trade war is underway. Markets shrink all over the world, and the result is economic slowdown and the loss of millions of jobs. That's why a summit conference with our major trading partners can be helpful. It's a chance to reaffirm our belief in free and fair trade, talk over the problems of protectionist legislation, and help provide a climate for the free flow of goods and commerce. It also gives us a chance to talk over other issues, like our goal of extending prosperity to the developing nations of the world. Right now the international community is helping these developing nations deal with the serious problem of heavy debt burdens. And just as this summit is helpful in coordinating our trade policies and our efforts to help spread prosperity to the rest of the world, our discussions in Venice will permit us to address such diverse topics as agricultural problems, terrorism, drug abuse, and the AIDS epidemic. So, too, the relationship between the free nations of the world and the Soviet bloc will be much on our minds. You probably know, for example, some very serious negotiations on arms reductions are reaching a critical stage. These negotiations affect our allies, so it's essential that we maintain our commitment to their security as well as our own. We also need to reaffirm our pledge to a strong defense while exerting pressure on the Soviets for progress in such areas as regional conflicts, like Afghanistan, and human rights. So, the agenda next week is a full one. But certainly one source of encouragement is our record of accomplishment not only for the past few years but during the past four decades. Forty years ago this week, then-Secretary of State George Marshall announced an economic recovery plan for the European nations devastated by World War II. The plan was not a giveaway program; it was instead an incentive-oriented effort to get European nations to work together and build a new prosperity, a prosperity built on self-help and mutual love of freedom. It's this same idea of freedom which has kept much of the world at peace for four decades and brought rising standards of living to the average person. That's what we'll be seeking to advance further in Venice. Our goal now is, together, to build on this record of growth and opportunity for the future, as we've done in the past. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow is Flag Day, the anniversary of the first official American flag. Nancy and I hope that you'll join us and millions of other Americans tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. eastern daylight time as we participate in the annual "Pause for the Pledge." The 31 words of the Pledge of Allegiance to our flag takes only a moment to recite, yet their meaning reaches across the many decades of our history as a free people. Now, to turn for a moment to the trip abroad that we just completed. Monday evening, in a televised address from the Oval Office, I'll present to the Nation a full report on the Venice economic summit. I'll also speak about a matter of world importance: the just-ended meeting in Reykjavik, Iceland, of Secretary of State George Shultz and his counterparts from the countries that make up the NATO alliance. Secretary Shultz and the NATO foreign ministers reached a crucial consensus on our arms reduction proposals that could move us closer to an historic agreement, bringing about for the first time real and equitable reductions in U.S. and Soviet nuclear arms. And it is NATO's firmness and unity that made this possible. For now, though, I'd like to talk with you about a matter that played a central role in the Venice summit: world trade. We in the United States hear much these days about balances and imbalances of world trade, about the whole question of how competitive our country is with the rest of the world. Congress in particular is paying a great deal of attention to this issue, and there are those on Capitol Hill who seem to think we can somehow make America more prosperous by putting up barriers and imposing tariffsthat is, by not even trying to compete with the rest of the world. Now, I don't doubt for a moment that when it comes to world trade our country could improve in a number of ways, and in just a minute, I'll speak about that. But first, it's terribly important for the American people and those in Congress to understand one fact: Despite the impressions you may have received, our economy is outperforming those of our trading partners. For example, consider these figures: In the 1970's Japan did consistently better than the United States in terms of real economic growth, but since late 1982, America's real economic growth has averaged 4 percent a year, about the same rate as that of Japan and a much better performance than that in Europe. One measure of how an economy is doing is how well it creates new jobs, and by this standard the United States wins the world contest, hands down. Just since late 1982, our country has created more than 13 1/2 million new jobsmore than the number of jobs created during the past decade by Japan and Europe combined. Growth in the United States is more sustainable now than it was in the 1970's, because today our economic growth is much less inflationary. Indeed, the month our administration first took office, inflation was running at 12 percent, but since 1982 our country has averaged a rate of inflation of less than 4 percent. One final factour economic growth has prompted and sustained economic growth throughout the world. Without America's economic recovery, now into its 54th consecutive month, most of the rest of the world, and especially the export economies of Europe and Asia, would have grown considerably less. This means that we're already doing something right, that because of our policies of low taxes and deregulation the world economy is better off and America is already becoming more and more competitive. We can do better, and we're working hard to remove foreign barriers to trade. When Japan failed to enforce an agreement on semiconductors, I imposed economic sanctions. The Japanese started showing positive movement in one area, and I was able to lift a proportional share of the sanctions. But it was a clear lesson for all who trade with our country: This administration will insist upon trade that is both free and fair. When we impose sanctions, we do so only so that trade can expand trade. We want to work with Congress on a competitiveness package that will complement these efforts. For Congress to place severe restrictions on international trade with tariffs and barriers and to limit my ability to utilize our trade laws when necessary, would damage our own prosperity and that of virtually the entire world. I urge Congress to bear this in mind. As major trade legislation comes to the floor, the United States is already becoming more competitive. Now, it's up to Congress to show that it understands economic reality. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Recently, Washington has been covered by mini-plagues of insects. First, there were boll weevils and gypsy moths in '81 and '82; they were good guys. Now there are cicadas. Cicadas, it seems, come in cycles. Their larvae bury deep into the ground and only hatch out every 17 years. They're big, awkward, flying things and, in large numbers, make a loud, screeching sound that reverberates in the humid Washington air. I think most everyone would agree things will be much more pleasant when the cicadas go back underground. Well, I'm afraid that, like the cicadas, the big spenders are hatching out again and threatening to overrun Congress. For awhile, they seemed to have gone underground. The deficit reduction law, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, helped keep them under control and, well, nobody wanted to repeat the mistake of one Presidential candidate who called for higher taxes. Now, however, the tax-and-spend crew is back, and they seem to have lost all embarrassment about taking your money on a spending spree. And one Congressman has called for so many tax increases since January that his colleagues derisively refer to his Tax of the Month Club. Last Monday, I called on Congress to come up with a responsible budget. Well, the House-Senate conference committee reached an agreement on a budget all right, but responsible it isn't. Forty-one billion dollars in increased domestic spending, with essential defense programs held captive to a $64 billion tax hikebook-balancing gimmicks that will actually cost you $2 billion in the long run. And, by their own estimates, they're not even close to Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit limits. We're willing to work with those in Congress who will work with us in good faith. But this budget is as bad as they comelike a bad sequel to the tax-and-spend follies of the 1970's. Let me give you a few examples of the brazen waste of your money that's been going on in Congress. Take the [Urban Development Action Grant] UDAG program$5.7 million will go to build rental units in a development in Palm Beach County. Five million dollars will go to develop a hotel, a lakefront restaurant, office space, and condominiums on Seneca Lake. More millions will go to help build luxury apartments in Newburgh, New York, and residential housing in the Riverside section of Detroit. But some of the waste is even more absurd. Did you know that your Congress wants to spend millions of dollars to purchase submerged lands? That's right, thanks to your Representatives, the Federal Government could become the proud owner of a thousand acres of underwater property. I've spoken frequently of the so-called demonstration projects in the highway bill, which don't demonstrate anything but the ability of some in Congress to bring home the bacon. But today I want to let you in on a naughty, little secret about agricultural subsidies: One of the biggest recipients of agricultural subsidies in America isn't even an American. He's the Prince of Liechtenstein, and he happens to own a few hundred thousand acres in Texas. Do you think that you and your hard-earned tax dollars should be feathering his bed? And all of this is just the tip of the icebergor the top of the pork barrel. The deeper you go, the worse it gets. Yet some in Congress can still stand up with a straight face and say that they can't find anywhere to cut except, of course, national defense. And, so, your taxes will have to be raised. Some say the deficit is the responsibility of the President. Well, the fact is, according to the Constitution, the President can't spend one nickel. Congress appropriates every cent in the budget and every single cent that makes up our deficit. Every year we consult with the people in the Cabinet and the agencies, the people who actually run these programs. We ask them what they need and then put together a responsible budget. Each year, Congress announcessometimes before they even see itthat our budget is dead on arrival. Then they put together their own budget. I have a choice: Take it, pork and all, or veto it, and see the entire United States Government grind to a halt. This is no way to run a country. This is why, in the coming weeks, I'll be taking my case to you, the American people, asking for your support to bring fiscal sanity back to our government. I'll be talking about your economic bill of rights. The right not to be overtaxed, overspent, and overregulated-and the mechanisms that can ensure those rights, like the balanced budget amendment with a tax limitation clause, the line-item veto, and other reforms of the budget process. I'll be counting on your support. Like tax reform, we can, and we will, win this one. Let's make the cicadas in Congress go back underground. Until next week, thanks for listening and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: With all the sideshows and hoopla in Washington these days, you may sometimes wonder if anyone's paying attention to what really matters. Keeping inflation, unemployment, and your taxes down and growth up, and getting control of our Federal deficit so the economy will stay healthythese are among Washington's most important jobs. In the last few weeks there's been good news and bad news out of Washington about our nation's economic future. The good news is that our economy is strong and getting stronger. Just a week ago we learned that in the first 3 months of this year, our economy had its best quarter in almost 3 years. We're now in the 55th month of what will soon be the longest peacetime economic expansion in history. And the improvement in the trade deficit, which we've been talking about for several months, is now being certified on the front pages of many of our nation's newspapers. As things look today, the good times will keep rolling for as far as the eye can see. Because of this growth, we continue to create jobs at a breakneck pacean average of about 245,000 a month, more jobs in the last 4 years than Europe and Japan combined. More people are at work today than ever before. Family income is growing, poverty is falling, and the middle class is strong. Not only that, but the inflation report we got this week is also good. As one analyst said, "The numbers indicate that no spurt of inflation is likely." That's the good news. The bad news is that there are some here in Washington who are on a course that could undo all the work that made that good news possible. When we came into office 6 1/2 years ago, we had a four-part plan to lower taxes, reduce regulations, stabilize monetary growth, and balance the budget. We put three of those four parts into action and lowered the growth of government spending to boot. The result has been four of the best years in our history. Balancing the budget by reducing government spending is the one piece left to put into place if we're to keep our prosperity going strong in the years to come. For years, we've piled deficit on top of deficit, mortgaging our future and that of future generations. To continue on this path is to court disaster. Yes, we can go ahead and keep borrowing. We can spend beyond our means. But one day the bills will come due. And even before they arrive, we'll be living with a government whose uncontrolled spending robs families and enterprising men and women of the savings and incentive to build for themselves, for our nation, and for the future. That's our choice: Close the deficit and lock economic expansion in place for the years ahead, or return to the days of inflation and stagnation. We must answer the call to action now if we are to preserve and protect our economic expansion. The answer is clear: Get on and stay on the road of declining deficits. When we look to Capitol Hill, however, the picture on the screen is all too familiar. It's an old rerun called "Business as Usual." Congress drifts through the process of drawing up a budget, missing its own deadlines, even failing to pass individual spending bills. In the last 11 years, Congress hasn't once enacted all 13 of the Government's spending bills by the beginning of the fiscal year, although the law requires it. It's been 10 years since they've passed every one of those bills by the end of the fiscal year. Last year, Congress proved beyond all questioning that, with the current process, it can't manage fiscal affairs. Even under the discipline of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, it failed to pass a single one of the regular 13 appropriation bills. Instead, Congress sent me a catchall, desperation move called a continuing resolution that jammed all appropriations into one bad piece of last-minute legislation and dangerously underfunded defense and foreign affairs. It favored domestic spending, especially pork-barrel projects ranging from subsidies for luxury apartments to roads that literally go nowhere. I had an all-or-nothing choice: Take it or close the Government down. Now, the first few of this year's regular 13 appropriation bills are heading my way. Two passed the House this week. And if all Congress' spending measures turn out like these, this year's 13 appropriations bills won't be a baker's dozen; they'll be a dirty dozen. What's in this one? More pork; more shortchanging of defense. They even managed to throw in dangerous protectionist measures. I need your help if we're to make Congress face the fact that its budget process is broken and needs fixing. At stake is reliability in government spending and the economic future of our nation. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Happy Fourth of July! Today we celebrate our country's independence and its freedom. It's a time to enjoy ourselves with friends and family, watch the fireworks, and perhaps to reflect a bit on the meaning of it all. Certainly freedom is something I had in mind this week when I nominated Judge Robert Bork to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Judge Bork is recognized by his colleagues and peers as a brilliant legal scholar and a fair-minded jurist who believes his role is to interpret the law, not make it. He is also a highly respected teacher, having devoted 15 years as a distinguished professor at one of this nation's most prestigious law schools. As a member of the United States Court of Appeals, Judge Bork has always heard each case with an open mind, following the law and legal precedentnot his personal preferences. In arriving at a decision, no appellate judge in America has a finer record. Not a single one of his more than 100 majority opinions has ever been reversed by the Supreme Court. To maintain the independence of the judiciary, I hope that we can keep politics out of the confirmation process and promptly schedule hearings. The American people deserve a Supreme Court with nine Justices operating at full strength. This, of course, is serious business because the Court plays such a significant role in the preservation of our way of life and the protection of our liberty. Yesterday, I hope none of you missed the announcement I made of a new policy initiative which has a lot to do with the principles we commemorate on the Fourth of July. During a ceremony at the Jefferson Memorial here in Washington, we discussed the four basic economic freedoms: the freedom to work, the freedom to enjoy the fruits of one's labor, the freedom to own and control one's property, and the freedom to participate in a free market. Then, in the shadow of the statue of Thomas Jefferson, I presented a package of fundamental economic reforms designed to protect those freedoms: the equivalent of an economic bill of rights. We don't have time now to go into all the proposals, but I'd like to tell you about a few of the important ones. The centerpiece is something aimed at one of our toughest domestic challenges-deficit spending. It's about time we constitutionally mandate the Federal Government to do what every American family must do, and that is balance its budget. That doesn't mean taking more out of your pocket by raising taxes. In fact, our Economic Bill of Rights suggests a balanced budget amendment should contain a provision requiring more than a mere majority vote in Congresswhich is all it takes nowto raise your taxes. Our reform also calls for full disclosure of the vital details of pending legislation. The people, as well as State and local government, have the right to know precisely how much fulfilling the will of Congress is going to cost them. Similarly, we deserve "truth in spending" from Congress. Any new legislation which calls for increased spending should indicate where the money is coming from. And part of any reform must be reestablishing certain checks and balances set down in the Constitution by our Founding Fathers. As of late, for example, the Presidential veto, a powerful force for responsible government, has been all but emasculated by changes in the way Congress does business. It's imperative we reestablish this Presidential authority by granting to the Chief Executive of the United States the tool now used by the chief executives of 43 States in keeping spending under control. I'm talking about a line-item veto, which lets the President cut out the fat, but keep the meat of all legislation that gets to his desk. We the people, deserve to know that our jobs, paychecks, homes, and pensions are safe from the taxers and regulators of big government. Jefferson warned us of this threat 200 years ago. Our Economic Bill of Rights is designed to protect the economic freedom of all Americans and to keep our country growing and prospering. I hope you've heard the most recent figures which indicate that unemployment continues its steady declinewe're down to 6 percentthat prices are steady, and that the economy continues to grow. We've come a long way in the last 6 1/2 years. The economic bill of rights, the package of basic reforms I proposed yesterday, will protect the progress we've made and keep our country moving forward. On this Fourth of July let us reaffirm that together, living in freedom, there's nothing we Americans can't do. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We are now in our 56th month of economic growth, close to the longest peacetime expansion in our entire history. We've enjoyed low inflation and job creation that has captured the imagination of the world. Over 13 million jobs have come into existence. And contrary to what some critics of our administration have been suggesting, most of the jobsover 60 percent of themare in the higher paying occupations. Our country's in the middle of a great jump forward. In these last few years, many American companies have restructured, cut overhead, brought down costs, and significantly improved quality. They've computerized their operations and invested in the most up-to-date technology. Last year, this innovation pushed manufacturing productivity in the United States ahead by 3.5 percent, a greater increase than in any other major industrialized nation. Unlike the late 1970's, when our major corporations seemed to be lagging behind, today they are again pulling out in front. In the last decade, our most productive citizensthe ones we depend on to carry our flag in a highly competitive world markethad their investment capital taxed away and were hamstrung by well-meaning, yet often intrusive, regulation. High taxes and overregulation were dragging us down. We've done our best in these 61/2 years to turn that situation around, and it's beginning to pay off. Federal tax rates are no longer increasing, draining even more resources out of the private sector into the bureaucracy. We've also kept under control the bureaucratic impulse to issue more and more regulations, mandates, and edicts telling us how to run our lives and businesses. We've done our best to free our economy and get government out of the way. In recent months, I've visited several companies, like Harley-Davidson in Pennsylvania and Dictaphone Corporation in Florida. The confidence of the men and women who work for these American corporations was inspiring; it reflects a mood in companies across this land. If you could meet them as I did, you'd be confident that American workers, if provided the tools and permitted to compete on a level playing field, can outproduce any rival and keep the "Made in the U.S.A." label something to be proud of. Lean, fast-moving, and efficient: American corporations are moving into the world market, and the latest figures suggest they are more than holding their own. In the last few months, we've seen an overall surge of American exports. In fact, from the third quarter of 1986 to the first quarter of 1987, exports were increasing at an annual rate of 14 percent and imports were declining at an annual rate of almost 5 percent. In short, our country turned the corner on our trade deficit last fall, and the situation continues to improve. The increased competitiveness of American business, the positive adjustment that has occurred in the international exchange rates, the improvement of the economies of our trading partners, and our ongoing efforts to pry open any foreign markets closed to American goodsall of this has helped us meet the trade deficit challenge. Ironically, just at a time when we're making great progress, Congress is seriously considering legislation that could set us back. The last thing our economy needs now is congressional action that is behind the curve. In the proposed bill, Congress takes aim at a problem that is correcting itself. It's a little like closing the barn door when the horse is trying to get back in. If the Congress really wants to help solve the trade deficit, the single best thing it could do is cut the Federal budget deficit. Now's the time to be talking about opening markets, not closing them; about expanding trade, not putting up roadblocks. What is called for now is hard work at the negotiating tables with our trading partners and innovative thinking. Well, that's just what we've been doing, especially concerning the international market in agriculture. This week, following through on an initiative we set in motion at the Tokyo economic summit last year, we proposed dramatic reform of the free world's agricultural trading system. Our idea is to open world markets and, over a 10-year period, to end the costly subsidies and price controls that are a heavy weight tied around the necks of the Western economies. Free from this burden, everyone, including the farmers, will be better off. Trade, commerce, and competition are positive forces carrying mankind to new levels of prosperity. And, as usual, Americans are leading the way. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: We're about to mark an important anniversary, but it'll be no cause for celebration. Eight years ago tomorrow, the Sandinista Communists came to power in the Central American country of Nicaragua. It may be hard to remember now, the great hopes with which their revolution was first greeted. The hated dictator Anastasio Somoza had been toppled, and the world looked forward to a bright future for Nicaragua. Little did we think then that the future the Sandinistas were planning for Nicaragua would be darker than anything that suffering country had ever before experienced. The Sandinistas spelled out their plans for subversion and aggression throughout Central America in the secret, but now notorious, 72-Hour Document, and it wasn't long before they started carrying them out. Arms shipments began flowing to the Communist guerrillas throughout Latin America-in El Salvador, Honduras, Colombia, and other countries. Within Nicaragua, the Sandinistas quickly built up the apparatus of a police state: closing churches and extinguishing the free press. The ranks of political prisoners swelled into the thousands, and beatings, torture, and official murder became the order of the day. Meanwhile, the Sandinistas began a campaign of slaughter against the peaceful Miskito Indians. One in every ten Nicaraguans is now a refugee-leaving home, family, and friends to escape the oppression inside that country. If the Sandinistas get their way, the torment of that sad country will soon spread throughout the entire region, engulfing the young democracies that surround Nicaragua. As I said in New York a few months ago, the democratic aspirations of millions in Central America now hang in the balance. The elected leaders of neighboring Central American countries know that until democracy comes to Nicaragua their own democracies will never be safe. And that is why, along with us, they have insisted on one thing: free, fair, and regularly scheduled elections in Nicaragua, the establishment of a genuinely democratic system and all the freedoms such a system depends on and encouragesfreedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of worship. This is what the Nicaraguan freedom fighters are fighting for, and this is why we must support them. We have worked in many ways to counter the spread of communism in Central America and those nations I've mentioned that are threatened by Nicaragua. We've instituted economic assistance to the region, military assistance to threatened democracies, and, together with our Central American allies, vigorous efforts to negotiate a peaceful and democratic outcome. But we know from experience that the Sandinistas will never negotiate seriously unless they see that the freedom fighters are a force to be reckoned with. Without the freedom fighters backing them up, negotiations can amount to no more than a hoax. Believe me, the current efforts of the Central American democracies to seek a peaceful and democratic outcome will not succeed if the Communists think that all they have to do is wait a few months and see if this country still has the resolve to support those who seek freedom in Nicaragua. The Soviets have spent over $1 billion to prop up the Sandinista regime and to defeat the freedom fighters. The Soviets know what's at stake in Nicaragua, and they know that the freedom fighters are all that stand between them and domination of the entire region. Now, some tell me that the people in this country just don't care about the freedom fighters, but I don't think that's true. The more people know about the Sandinista Communists, the more they support the freedom fighters. That's why the closer you get to Nicaragua, the stronger their support grows. Public opinion polls in Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala show overwhelming support for contra aid. In Honduras 81 percent of the people support it. Of course, inside Nicaragua they don't have any polls, but the people there are daily risking their lives, giving whatever help they can to see the young men and boys who are fighting for their country's freedom. In this country, too, we have seen support grow dramatically as the American people learn the facts about Nicaragua. The American people are tired of the off-on-again policy in Central America. A bipartisan majority supported aid to the freedom fighters last year. The American people want that aid to continue. And that's why we've got to get the message out. Talk to your family, your friends, your neighborseven your Congressmen and Senators. Let them know how you feel. We've got to get the message out, because there's no question in my mind, when the American people have the facts, they'll support freedom this time and every time. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Few tragedies hurt American families more than catastrophic illness among our elderly. First, there's the human and emotional cost of caring for a loved one who's severely ill; and then there's the financial cost, one that can frequently wipe out the hard work and savings of a lifetime. It was to do something about this tragedy that I proposed legislation earlier this year that would provide catastrophic health insurance for our elderly. It's a responsible program that would limit annual personal expenses for Medicare acute care services to $2,000. Beyond that point, Medicare would pay for unlimited physician care and time in the hospital. The cost would be under $6 a month, or $70 next year, in Medicare premiums. Although the premiums, as the years go by, would rise to keep pace with program costs, they would remain affordable. Here then was a sound program that would take care of the national tragedy of catastrophic illness among the elderly. A program, too, that would be financially sound and not jeopardize the solvency of the basic Medicare system. Then I submitted it to Congress. Unfortunately, this sound, reasonable program has been converted into a massive program that will impose a new tax on the elderly and soon threaten to bankrupt the Medicare trust fund. On Wednesday, the House of Representatives rejected a Republican-sponsored plan based on my proposal. Instead, they passed a bill that will cost over $10 billion in 1989 and nearly $100 billion by 2005more than three times what my plan would cost. The House threw out the basic affordable premium of under $6 per month and replaced it with a surtax on beneficiaries' income tax of up to $580 per year. That means an elderly person with a $6,000 to $14,000 income would have his or her marginal tax rates raised from 15 percent, as promised in last year's tax reform, to 22 percent in a single yearand by 1992, to 25 percent. Put another way, a Medicare recipient with monthly income as low as $1,200 could have his or her income tax increased by $580 per year. But even this huge increase in taxes on the elderly isn't enough to finance the program. By 1995, the costs will be so great they will threaten the entire Medicare trust fund. And just after the start of the next century, in the year 2005, there will be a $20 billion shortfalla shortfall that will have to be made up by more tax increases. So, in summary, here's the situation: I promised Americans a plan that would protect you in your retirement years from financial devastation brought on by a catastrophic illness requiring prolonged hospitalization and medical care. I fulfilled that promise and in return the Democratic House more than tripled the costs, increased tax rates for virtually all elderly taxpayers, expanded the program so much that in about 15 years it will run a $20 billion deficit and threaten the solvency of the entire Medicare trust fund. And to top it off, Congress would have the elderly begin paying a year before starting the full plan. I know all of this is upsetting, but let me stress that I don't think there's cause for pessimism. As perhaps most of you know, I've been out around the country lately, and everywhere I go I hear protests from people like you about the ways of Capitol Hill. I think the American people are doing a slow burn over Congress' failure to face up responsibly to the problems. And I think the public's temperature is going to rise even higher when it understands that Congress has been trifling with a plan to provide elderly Americans with insurance against catastrophic illnessa plan that can work without taxing the elderly into servitude. As we move along throughout the summer and the start of next year, these issues will come increasingly into focus. I think it's then that a lot of Representatives will start realizing that Americans like you are disturbed by Congress' ways. But the health plan is not just another pork-barrel project we're arguing over. This is a fight about protecting the health of our senior citizenscome to think of it, citizens like me. And doing it in a way that doesn't bankrupt the elderly in the process. So, be sure to tell your Representatives and Senators that you support the administration plan, not the high-taxing substitute for catastrophic health insurance. America's living conditions and health delivery systems have come a long way in the last half century. Let's keep that progress going, and let's do it in a fiscally sound way that protects our elderly citizens and their families from the tragedy of catastrophic illness. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Americans always have cared about the less fortunate, and I'm sure it'll deeply gladden the hearts of many of you to know the kind of progress we've made during the past 6 1/2 years in helping the poor. We have between 4 and 6 million fewer low-income families on the Federal income tax rolls. We've tamed inflation rates that were devastating the purchasing power of those least able to afford the basic necessities of life and reversed an upward spiral in the number of poor people that began in 1979. The official statistics released on Thursday show that the poverty rate is down for the third year in a row. The 1.6-percentage drop in poverty over the last 3 years is the largest sustained improvement since 1970. And median family income, adjusted for inflation, rose by 4.2 percent in 1986the largest increase since 1972. All of us can be pleased with this progress; pleased but not satisfied. More must be done to reduce poverty and dependency and, believe me, nothing is more important than welfare reform. It's now common knowledge that our welfare system has itself become a poverty trapa creator and reinforcer of dependencyand that's why last year, in my State of the Union Message, I called for an overhaul of our welfare system. Since that time, I've sent to Congress a carefully designed package of proposals that rejects the old Federal approach of sweeping solutions dictated from Washington. The central point of our new proposalas outlined in our earlier study "Up From Dependency" and now embodied in our legislative proposal, the Low-Income Opportunity Improvement Actis a provision that will allow States and localities to test new ideas for reducing welfare dependency. Through experimental changes, through carefully tested and evaluated demonstrations, this new approach can determine what does work in reducing welfare dependency. When the National Governors' Association met last weekend in Michigan, they gave substantial support to our plans to give them greater flexibility and they promised to work closely with us and the Congress. But, while we must let loose the creative energies of our States and localities, I think there are some critical improvements we can make at the Federal level. Under the laws now in place, all mothers who have children under age 6 are exempt from participating in work activities thatas several demonstration projects have showncan help Aid For Dependent Children, AFDC, recipients become more self-reliant. Fewer than one-fifth of all recipients now participate in work activities. We must lift this counterproductive exemption and thereby get early help to these women and their children before they become chronically dependent on welfare. We must also reform work requirements so that long gaps in school or in other work-related experiences no longer occurand so too, work opportunities for AFDC recipients must be expanded. We must give teenagers on AFDC who have not completed high school the opportunity to continue their schooling and older recipients to participate in employment and training activities. Two proposals we've sent to the CongressGROW, or Greater Opportunities Through Work, in AFDC and the AFDC Youth Training Initiativewill allow us to do all of these things. So too, changes in our child support enforcement system can reduce welfare dependency. Parents who bring children into the world have a responsibility for these children, whether they live with them or not. The administration is taking steps to ensure that States are able to do a better job in locating absent parents, establishing paternity, and collecting child support on behalf of AFDC recipients. We also have asked the Congress for new laws that would increase child support award amounts for both welfare and nonwelfare families. Now the question I ask about any welfare reform proposal is: Will it help people become self-sufficient and lead a full life, or will it keep them down in a state of dependency? I'm afraid that several Members of Congress have suggested some proposals that, while claiming to require work-related activities, would make staying on welfare more attractive. Their misguided compassion would only bring more people into the welfare system, encourage them to stay on the welfare rolls longer, and discourage work. For example, the Democratic House bill contains no demonstration authority at all and another Senate bill only a very limited one. AFDC work program reforms that emphasize early intervention to prevent welfare dependency, child support enforcement improvements to provide children the help that they need, and demonstration projects that give us the information necessary to make changes in the national welfare system: that is my welfare reform strategy; I hope it has your support. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week the world will mark a dark anniversary. Twenty-six years ago on Thursday, at one minute after midnight, thousands of East German troops marched out of their barracks and, in the dead of night and backed by Soviet forces, built the Berlin Wall. Today's Berlin Wall is very different from the crude strip of barbed wire that the people of Berlin woke up to the following morning 26 years ago. Changes have included the addition of guard towers, tank stops, razor-sharp metal fences, floodlights, ditches, and dog runs. The wall itself is now 12 feet high, concrete, and painted white so that anyone climbing it will make an easy target. Yet over the years, one thing hasn't changed. It is this: Although the wall surrounds West Berlin, it is not West Berliners who are its prisoners. As one West German newspaper put it the morning after the wall went up: "Yesterday, East Berlin was officially transformed into one immense concentration camp." But it takes more than walls and guns to imprison the human spirit. In the last 26 years, almost 5,000 people have broken through this barrier and fled to freedom. Some tunneled under the wall. Some rigged ropes and pulleys to glide over it. Some ran trucks through checkpoints. Some simply ran on foot across what officials in the Soviet bloc call a "modern border" and the people of Berlin call the "death strip." At least 74 men and women have died in that race for freedom. In June, on my way home from the economic summit in Venice, I visited Berlin and saw the wall once again. And I saw, as I have before, that people have put up small crosses on the free side of the wallmemorials to those who were killed trying to get over. On one side, the "death strip;" on the other, memorials to those who fell crossing it. No place on Earth can you see more clearly the contrast between the prison that is communism and the spirit of liberty that lives in all of humanity. In recent months, we've heard a great deal from the Soviet world about something called glasnost. Glasnost is a Russian word that, we're told, means openness. But does it mean genuine openness to speak, to write, to travel, even to buy and sell? Or is it more of a publicity show? As I said in Berlin in June, the way for the Soviets to demonstrate their dedication to true openness is to tear down the wall. That's not all they could do. At the end of World War II, the Soviets promised free elections in Eastern Europe. Openness should mean fulfilling that promise. Openness should also mean freeing political prisoners, refuseniks, and other prisoners of conscience. It should mean an end to Soviet imperialism, whether it's in Eastern Europe, Afghanistan, Angola, Cuba, or Nicaragua. It should, in short, mean openness in all the nations subject to Soviet domination. In Berlin this June, I said that we in the United States were ready to join with the Soviets in bringing true openness to that divided city. I suggested starting discussions on four proposals. The proposals were: first, to look for ways to expand commercial air access to Berlin so that one day it might be the hub of central European air traffic; second, to bring more international meetings and conferences to Berlinfor example, United Nations meetings; third, I encouraged a program of exchanges so that young East and West Berliners could more easily visit and come to know one another; and fourth, I proposed holding, in some future year, the Olympic games in Berlin. Together all of these proposals would bring a new openness into the lives not only of Berliners but of people throughout Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union as well. We should keep in mind how important this is for each of us, as Americans, as a people who want peace among nations. Because of our renewed strength, we've made great progress in the last several years toward peace, particularly in the area of arms reduction talks with the Soviet Union. But encouraging though this has been, we should not let ourselves forget the warning of the Czech dissident writer Vaclav Havel, who some time ago cautioned us that: "Respect for human rights is the fundamental condition and the sole genuine guarantee of true peace. A lasting peace," he said, "can only be the work of free people." So, on this 20th [26th] anniversary of the Berlin Wall, let us resolve to do all we can to hasten the day when the wall is down and Berlin has become a symbol not of confrontation but of cooperation among the peoples of Europe and of the entire world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Wednesday evening I spoke to you from the Oval Office, and I'd like to take a moment today to discuss with you the importance of the message I delivered. After many weeks, the Iran-contra hearings are over. The issues involved have been examined from every angle and in every light. The mistakes that were made have been dealt with. Now it's time for Americans to come together and move our nation forward. Here at home, there's the urgent need to put the Federal budget process in order, bringing runaway Federal spending under control and achieving further reductions in the Federal deficit. Delay after delay, missed deadline after missed deadlinethe entire budget process is so chaotic it is providing a cover for those in Congress whose aim is to shift resources from the people's interest to the special interests. Not one appropriations bill has been passed by the Congress for the fiscal year which begins in less than 60 days. And just consider what this budget process produces. There's the Federal program that will spend millions to help build luxury hotels, restaurants, and condominiums. That's rightfancy condominiums. If Congress is serious about getting back down to work, serious about promoting our nation's economic growth, then Congress should pass a responsible budget that is credible and enforceable. The time has come to enact a line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment. My nomination of Judge Robert Bork to the Supreme Court comes at the top of our nation's domestic agenda. Judge Bork is a distinguished judge and a man of great intellect and broad experience. Like me, Judge Bork believes in judicial restraint: that courts should interpret the law and that judges should not substitute their own personal views for those of legislators whose responsibility it is to make the laws. The former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Warren Burger, has said that he could not recall a nominee better qualified than Judge Bork. Just 5 years ago, the Senate voted unanimously to confirm him as a judge on our nation's second highest court. I believe the Senate should now move expeditiously to confirm him as a Justice on the Supreme Court. Abroad, our nation's business is no less pressing. We're pursuing intensive negotiations with the Soviet Union on arms control that actually hold out the hope of cutting both sides' nuclear arsenals. In the Persian Gulf and the Middle East, generally bringing about stability and a lasting peace remains one of the most important goals of my Presidency. If we're going to make progress toward peace, we cannot permit extremists to set the agenda or coerce their neighbors. We have to show that efforts of intimidation, like Iranian threats against Kuwait and other nonbelligerent states in the Gulf, do not work. We're a tolerant people, but we do not bow to intimidation, and we've consistently throughout our history been willing to defend ourselves. Our tolerance should not be mistaken for a lack of resolve. We will stand by the security commitments we've made to our friends in the Gulf and elsewhere in the region. Of course, we strongly favor the peaceful resolution of conflicts. We will continue our diplomatic efforts in the U.N. and elsewhere to diffuse tensions and pursue a prompt negotiated settlement to the Iran-Iraq war, and we will press our efforts to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict, recognizing that stalemate will strengthen those very forces most opposed to peace. Permit me now to turn to Nicaragua, where we're engaged in a crucial effort to promote human freedom. Last week our administration proposed a timetable for negotiations to bring peace to Nicaragua by opening the country to democracy. Just days later, the leaders of five Central American countries themselves put forward a plan for peace and democracy in Nicaragua. This plan differs from our own in certain regards, but it's important to understand that both insist upon opening Nicaragua to genuine democracy. We welcome the Central American initiative and are willing to work with our Central American friends as they perfect and implement it, consistent with our national interests and our commitment to those fighting for freedom in Nicaragua. Our support for the freedom fighters should continue until a satisfactory peace plan is in place, a cease-fire has occurred, and a verifiable process of democratization is underway. The principles that Speaker Wright and I agreed to are valid principles that we hope will assist our friends in Central America as they pursue the twin goals of peace and democracy in the region. Well, enough talk, enough delay. In Central America, the Middle East, and, yes, here at home, the time has come to move forward. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Throughout the history of our Republic, many a candidate has promised that if elected he would clean up the mess in Washington. Well, when I got to Washington 6 1/2 years ago, I found the mess still here. Our Federal Government was weighted down with waste, victimized by fraud, and out of step with modern management techniques. We started on day one to set things right. To begin with, we brought in topnotch inspectors general for Federal departments and agencies, who were instructed not only to be tough on waste, fraud, and abuse but, as my Press Secretary Jim Brady put it, to be as mean as junkyard dogs. In March of 1981, a Council on Integrity and Efficiency composed of these inspectors general was established to ensure that our cleanup operation left no stone unturned. Over the years, you've probably heard snippets on the news about outrageously expensive wrenches purchased by the military and other stories concerning government waste. More often than not, what you've been hearing are success storiesstories of waste or fraud uncovered and corrected. In the last few years, we've made enormous strides in our efforts to ensure that you get the maximum benefit out of every tax dollar you send to Washington. Already, over $90 billion had been put to better use since we took office. And I fully expect this trend to continue. Just this week, I signed H.R. 1444, which will improve the Government's tools for weeding out fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Furthermore, through Reform '88my government-wide management improvement programefficient new business techniques have been put in place. This includes a new comprehensive cash management system that now oversees the Federal Government's $1.8 trillion annual cash flow. By relying on the existing private sector banking structure, the new system has reduced cost from 1983 through 1986 by $2.3 billion. We've also reduced the Federal publication inventory by one-fourth, at a savings of $35 million. And by using private travel companies, the Federal Government has saved $762 million in its annual travel budget. And the list goes on. We've also turned up the heat on those who have the means but refuse to pay their debts to the Federal Government. Over at the Department of Education, for example, we found that many individualssome in high-paying jobssimply ignored pleas that they repay their long-overdue student loans. Our efforts to crack down have paid off. Collections of loans have almost quadrupled since 1981, from $80 million to over $300 million last year. Last month, Budget Director Jim Miller announced that the entire Federal Government will be accelerating the drive to collect the delinquent $68.3 billion it's owed. But piece-by-piece change is not enough. In 1982 we established a commission headed by Peter Grace one of the country's most prominent businessmento set down a long-term strategy for streamlining our government. Mr. Grace put together a team of experts and went through our Federal Government from top to bottom. Their report is now the basis for ongoing reform that should save tens of billions of dollars over the next decade. The recommendations include everything from stepped-up privatization of Federal services to the reform of our budget system. Building on this success, Peter Grace and a group of dedicated business leaders are now forming the United States taxpayers commission to keep the focus on reducing costs rather than raising taxes. I expect they'll bring renewed interest to streamline Federal operations and to ensure that you, the American people, are getting all the government you're paying for. Getting the waste out of government, of course, requires not just a commitment from the executive branch but also from Congress. Unfortunately, expenses, special interest provisions, are often added to needed legislation. We can no longer afford this costly all-or-nothing way of doing business. The President should be able to cut the fat yet keep the meat of spending bills that reach his desk. The tool needed to cut that fat is the line-item veto. Congress has the power to enact this needed reform right now. I hope you agree with me it's time every elected official be part of our effort to protect the take-home pay of the American people by getting waste out of government. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In this summer season, most of us would like to forget work, take some time off, and relax. Still, if you're like me, while you're on vacation, your mind wanders to bigger issues than the day-to-day onesissues like where we're going over the long run and how we plan to get there. I hope you'll forgive me then if I take a few minutes to talk with you about one of the biggest issues: relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. You see, I had a chance to speak about this a few days ago to a group in Los Angeles and by satellite hookup to another one in New York. I wanted to share some of that with you. Today America and the Soviet Union are adversaries, as we have been since shortly after the Second World War. This hostility was not of U.S. choosing. Before his death, President Franklin Roosevelt spoke for all Americans when he said that he hoped the Soviets would work with us after the war for a world of democracy and peace. With this prayer in his heart, F.D.R. went to the Yalta Conference in 1945 to meet with Stalin. There the Soviets fed his hopes by agreeing that when peace came they would hold free and unfettered elections in Eastern European countries like Poland. Within 2 years they broke that promise. Then they began to subvert free countries like Greece and Turkey. Only after that did America reluctantly accept that the Soviets were our adversaries. Today the goals of our foreign policy are the same as they have been for the last four decades. We stand against totalitarianism, particularly imperialistic expansionist totalitarianism. We are for democracy and human rights, and we're for a worldwide prosperity that only free economies can give and the pursuit of human happiness that only political freedom allows. When my administration took office 6 1/2 years ago, we found that in some crucial ways American policy had lost sight of these great goals. A massive Soviet military buildup throughout the 1970's had been met with inaction in the United States. The Soviets had added several thousand warheads, introduced advanced intermediate-range nuclear weapons to Europe, and installed their fourth generation of intercontinental missiles, while we simply watched. Meanwhile, in the Third World, Soviet adventurism had reached into countries like Afghanistan, Cambodia, Angola, and Nicaragua. Today much has changed. We have built up our military, and the Soviets have responded to our new strength with a new willingness to talk seriously about arms reductions. In the past, arms agreements simply set rules for how fast our two countries could increase their numbers of nuclear weapons. Six years ago I said that this was a wrong goal for arms talks. We should try to cut the nuclear numbers. I suggested that in one areaground-launched intermediate-range missileswe simply eliminate them. Well, today we are close to an agreement with the Soviets to do just that. At the same time, we have begun work on technologies that could free all of mankind from the fear of nuclear missiles for all timea strategic defense against nuclear ballistic missiles. In the last 6 1/2 years, we have also established a new approach to Soviet adventurism. We have said that America has a moral obligation to stand with those brave souls who fight for freedom and against Soviet-sponsored oppression in their homelands. If the world is to know true peace, the Soviets must give up these imperial adventures. This week I suggested a number of steps the Soviets can take to improve relations with the United States. They can get out of Afghanistan; they can tear down the Berlin Wall; they can allow free elections in Eastern Europe. And since this month marks the seventh anniversary of the free Polish labor union Solidarity, as well as the 19th anniversary of the 1968 Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia, it is a particularly good time for the Soviets to repudiate force as a means of preventing liberalization in Eastern Europe. And along the same lines, they can stop helping the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua subvert its neighbors. The Soviets can also open their defense establishment to world scrutiny. They can publish a valid and comprehensive defense budget and reveal the size and composition of their armed forces. They can let their parliament, the Supreme Soviet, debate major new military programs. Here at home we must remember the lesson of the last 40 years, that if the world is to know true peace and if freedom is to prevail, America must remain strong and determined. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I hope all of you are enjoying this Labor Day weekend, a time for family outings, backyard barbecues, and a time of appreciation for the working people of America. It was back in 1882 when Peter McGuire, the son of Irish immigrants and founder of the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, first came up with the idea of setting a day aside to honor the laboring people of our country. On September 5th of that year, 1882, the first Labor Day celebration took place in New York City. By 1894 it had spread throughout the country and was proclaimed a Federal holiday by an act of Congress. American working men and women have much of which to be proud. Our democracy is based on their good sense and commitment to liberty. It was the hard work and skill of working people that turned a vast American wilderness into the world's most powerful economy. Our working people are still the most productive on the planet. I've always believed that, given the tools and equipment they need and on a level playing field, American workers can outcompete and beat the pants off anybody, anywhere. Now, there are those who don't have this same confidence. They fear foreign competition, as is reflected in protectionist trade proposals that float around Washington these days. Well, restricting trade in the long run is bad for everybody, especially for the working people of America. Protecting one domestic industry risks retaliation against another. For example, American agriculture would be dealt a devastating blow if our trading partners shut their markets to our farm products in retaliation to American protectionism. Trade and commerce are the lifeblood of job creation. The flow of goods and services between countries and peoples is a stimulus to growth and prosperity. This isn't a time for us to be afraid, to be erecting barriers, or to be trying to shut out the world. Instead, we should be working to open markets, to increase our productivity, and to meet the competition head-on. And don't let anyone tell you we can't do it. Last year manufacturing productivity in the United States jumped by 3.5 percent, the biggest increase of any major industrialized nation. We've been witnessing fundamental changes throughout the width and breadth of our economy. Management and labor have gotten serious. Companies have been restructured, overhead has been cut, costs brought down, quality improved. Impressive investments have been made in technology and computerization. American industry is stepping out in the world again, and this time it's leaner, meaner, and ready for action. As usual, Congress is now talking about passing heavy-handed legislation to deal with our trade problem. If there's one thing that should be clear to even the casual observer, it is that quick-fixes and easy answers like protectionism are not the way to a better life. That was made abundantly evident when, during the last decade, higher taxes and bigger government gave us double-digit inflation and economic stagnation. When we got to Washington 6 1/2 years ago, we put in place economic policies that foster lasting progress, policies that encourage people to work and invest, policies that leave more resources in the hands of the producers, consumers, and entrepreneurs rather than in the bureaucratic coffers of the Federal Government. What has this meant for the working people of America? We're entering the 58th month of economic growth. Inflation has remained low and more than 13 1/2 million jobs have been created, about 240,000 a month since the expansion began. Unemployment continues to drop; a higher percentage of our working-age population is employed than ever before. And last year workers' pay increases stayed well ahead of consumer price increases since hourly compensation rose an average of 3.9 percent, consumer price increases only 1.1 percent. Furthermore, poverty is declining in America, and the median family income after adjustments for inflation jumped by 4.2 percent last year, the fourth straight year in a row it's increased. In short, the working people of America are better off, and what better day to say it than on Labor Day. You may notice that the holiday we celebrate today falls directly between the Fourth of July and Thanksgiving, days that underscore our devotion to freedom and our thanks to God. That is an appropriate spot to reserve for the recognition of the working men and women of America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
This Wednesday, all across America, we'll be celebrating the 200th anniversary of the document that has brought freedom and hope to so many millions: the United States Constitution. At 1:50 on Wednesday, I will lead a nationwide Pledge of Allegiance that will be broadcast live, giving all Americans a chance to renew our commitment to the document that's been called the greatest act of political genius in history. On Thursday I'll be in Philadelphia, participating in the celebration organized by "We the People." As we reflect on our Constitution this week, we must seek to further its purpose here at home and all across the world. The cause of freedom is America's cause. And one of the most exciting movements in this direction during the past 10 years has been in Latin America, where over 90 percent of the people are now living under democratic rule. It was my privilege earlier this week to speak with the Holy Father, Pope John Paul II, on our mutual concern about peace and freedom in Latin America. And yet, for all the progress in this region, one country, Nicaragua, and its 3 million inhabitants have seen that dream of freedom trampled. Many Americans have learned over the last few months what has really been happening in Nicaragua: how a democratic revolution was betrayed; how a tiny elite has been creating a totalitarian, Marxist-Leninist dictatorship to satisfy their own personal lust for power and to give the Soviet Union a beachhead on the mainland of this continentonly 2,000 miles from the Texas border, a clear national security threat. Yet despite all the repression and Soviet intervention, the people of Nicaragua still cling to their dream of freedom. In the best tradition of our Founding Fathers, they formed a democratic resistance against tyranny, one of the largest peasant armies in the world, with more than 17,000 freedom fighters called contras. And as the contras have grown stronger, the Communist regime has grown shakier. So, under increasing pressure, the Communist leader Daniel Ortega recently signed, at a summit of Central American leaders, a peace plan that pledged his government to democratic reform, respect for human rights, and free elections. We welcome the Guatemala plan, but it falls short of the safeguards for democracy and our national security contained in the bipartisan plan I worked out with the congressional leadership. That is why, as Secretary Shultz said earlier this week, there should be no uncertainty about our unswerving commitment to the contras. It is their effort that has made the peace initiative possible. At the appropriate moment, I intend to put forth a $270 million request for contra aid over 8 months18 months, I should say. As Secretary Shultz also spelled out, the Sandinista regime has a long way to go in living up to its pledge of democratic reform. Only 8 days after signing the peace agreement, Sandinista police used attack dogs, night sticks, electric cattle prods, and government-organized mobs to break up a peaceful demonstration by the Nicaraguan Democratic Coordinadora. So, too, the 6 independent Nicaraguan political parties have called efforts by the Communists to manipulate the National Reconciliation Commission set up under the plan "a Sandinista maneuver to fool the international public." They accused the Sandinistas of "violating. the spirit of the Guatemala agreements." And this week we learned that Daniel Ortega will be in Moscow on November 7th, the date the Central American peace plan is to go into effect, celebrating with his Soviet allies the anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution. What the world wants from the Sandinistas are real democratic reforms, real signs of freedom, such as reopening the newspaper La Prensa, but not censoring its copy or denying it newsprint. La Prensa and other publications must be free to report, so must the independent radio stations and TV. Freedom of religion must be respected. The Sandinistas have said they will allow three exiled priests to return, but what of the thousands of other exiles? Return is not enough; they must be free to minister, live, and organize politically without intimidation. Genuine free political competition must be permitted. The secret police, with their neighborhood block committees, must be abolished and all foreign advisers sent home. The Sandinistas should know that America and the world are watching. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: A great deal happened in Washington this past week, and I'd like to take a moment this afternoon to discuss with you three of the most important events. First, the Senate opened the confirmation hearings on Judge Robert Bork, my nominee to the Supreme Court. Before these hearings began, there had been a lot of talk to the effect that Judge Bork was some kind of political ideologue. In truth, Judge Bork's philosophy of judging is neither conservative nor liberal. He simply believes that a judge should keep his own views from interfering with an interpretation of the laws and the Constitution according to the intentions of those who enacted them, consistent with established precedent. One place this judicial philosophy will help is in the fight against crime. On Tuesday, Judge Bork was introduced by no less distinguished a figure than former President Ford. And on Wednesday, President Carter's White House Counsel, a prominent Democrat named Lloyd Cutler, published a newspaper article endorsing Judge Bork. Mr. Cutler wrote of Judge Bork, and I quote: "His views were and are widely shared by justices and academics who are in the moderate center." The hearings themselves have already made it perfectly clear that Judge Bork is a man of reason, indeed, a brilliant legal scholar. I'm confident that when these hearings conclude, the Senate will confirm this fine judge, referred to by the Wall Street Journal asand again, I quote: 'the most qualified American alive to serve on the Supreme Court." The second of the week's big events was the visit of Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze. In 3 full days of talks important progress was made. The United States and the Soviet Union have now agreed in principle to completing a truly historic treaty that will eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range missiles. I expect to sign this treaty later this fall at a summit. We agreed to begin formal negotiations on verifying existing nuclear testing treaties and to forge ahead toward another historic objectivecutting our strategic nuclear arsenals in half. I'm proud that these were American proposals, which the Soviets have come around to accept. But I made it clear to the Soviet Foreign Minister that I will not sacrifice our SDI program. Indeed, yesterday we announced that we're moving forward on SDI to demonstrate and validate six promising technologies. Nor will we let up on our insistence on better Soviet performance on human rights and regional conflicts like Afghanistan. Our agenda is both peace and freedom, and when I meet Mr. Gorbachev again later this year this is the agenda I will pursue. This brings me to the third item I'd like to discuss with you: the Federal budget. This week the House leadership worked out a bipartisan plan to continue providing humanitarian aid to the democratic resistance in Nicaragua. But I'm afraid I have to tell you that, when it comes to the Federal budget process itself, the news is not good. In less than 2 weeks, the Federal Government begins a new fiscal year. But has Congress even sent me so much as one of the 13 appropriations bills? The answer is no, even though the passage of these bills on time was required by law. Instead, this week the Congress began to put together a continuing resolution. In plain terms, this means that since Congress can't get its act together on controlling spending, Congress simply keeps overspending at last year's pace for a few more weeks. After that, Congress will have to face the spending problem all over again-perhaps only passing yet another continuing resolution. Now, when Congress passes one of these continuing resolutions, it puts appropriated Federal funding into a huge lump. And when one of these massive continuing resolutions comes to my desk, it's a take-it-or-leave-it proposition. Sign the bill and, with it, accept the inability to get wasteful spending under some level of control or, reject it, and watch the United States Government run out of money and grind to a halt. I've felt for some time that no President should be placed in that position. Our administration has proposed reforms that would fix the budget process: the lineitem veto and a balanced budget amendment. But if we're going to run the Federal Government by continuing resolutions, then the very least Congress can do is this: Break them into separate parts, with each part dealing with a specific area of Federal funding. Doing so would provide me with at least some opportunity to exercise my rightful judgment as Presidentan opportunity I intend to insist on. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's good news. The Federal deficit for this year is expected to drop by some 30 percent compared to last year. That could be a whopping $65 billion reduction, and it happened without a tax increase. There's also some disappointing news. The Congress, once again, has passed a bill that puts me in the position of accepting legislation with which I fundamentally disagree. The bill would continue the authority of the United States Government to borrow funds which we must do to avoid the default on our obligations. This legislation also includes a so-called fix of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction law, but it really is an attempt to force me eventually either to sign a tax bill or to accept massive cuts in national defense, or both. I would have no problem with signing an extension of the debt limit. But the choice is for the United States to default on its debts for the first time in our 200-year history, or to accept a bill that has been cluttered up. This is yet another example of Congress trying to force my hand, and it's one more reason why the President needs the lineitem veto to separate the good from the bad. Unfortunately, Congress consistently brings the Government to the edge of default before facing its responsibility. This brinkmanship threatens the holders of government bonds and those who rely on Social Security and veterans benefits. Interest rates would skyrocket, instability would occur in financial markets, and the Federal deficit would soar. The United States has a special responsibility to itself and the world to meet its obligations. It means we have a well-earned reputation for reliability and credibilitytwo things that set us apart from much of the world. Some in Congress will claim that if I reject this bill with its Gramm-Rudman-Hollings fix, then I'm against deficit reduction. But, of course, nothing is farther from the truth. Since 1980 when you first elected me to this office, I have led efforts to control Congress' appetite to spend in deficit. Over a 5-year period, while revenues went up 28 percent, congressional spending went up 46 percent. From 1982 to 1987, for every dollar Congress cut from our national defense, they added $2 for domestic spending. Now, that's not fiscal restraint. Two years ago, Congress took a first step to curb spending with Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, and I agreed. Its purpose was to get on a track to lower deficits and eventually a balanced budget. Well, the ink was not even dry before Congress walked away from its own plan. Instead of facing the tough choices to reduce Federal spending, Congress attempted to shift the burden to our national security and to you, the American taxpayers, in the form of new taxes. For those who say further responsible spending reductions are not possible, they are wrong. For those who say the only choice is undermining our national security at a time when the United States is close to an agreement with the Soviet Union on reducing nuclear weapons, they are wrong. For those who say more taxes will solve our deficit problem, they are wrong. Every time Congress increases taxes, the deficit does not decrease, spending increases. It's time for a clear and consistent policy to reduce the Federal budget deficit. In the weeks ahead, Congress will have the opportunity to meet this commitment. So today, let's get some things clear. I will not hesitate to use my veto to hold down excess spending, and I will spell out the impact that defense cuts will have on our long-term security interests. You don't need more taxes to balance the budget. Congress needs the discipline to stop spending more, and that can be done with the passage of a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. Congress needs to reform its budget process, at least by breaking up those massive, catch-all spending bills into individual parts. That way, each part can stand on its own. And to meet the new deficit target in Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, if Congress insists on lowering defense spending, then I will certainly insist on lowering domestic spending as well. This decision is not easy. I have no choice but to sign this bill to guarantee the United States Government's credit. But I also will not permit Congress to dismantle our national defense, to jeopardize arms reduction, or to increase your taxes. I am determined that will not happen. Until next week, thank you, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I'd like to give you some background you won't get from other Washington sources about a story that's been in the headlines. But first I'd like to take a minute and tell you about a story that hasn't been in the headlines but should be. In May of this year, a tornado ripped through the west Texas town of Saragosa, killing 30 people, injuring 120 more, and destroying two-thirds of the buildings. Many believed that spring tornado would make a ghost town of Saragosa, but this past Labor Day, a private sector initiative proved the doomsayers wrong. Over the holiday weekend, 700 volunteers from all over our country, with mostly donated materials, built 15 new homes in a single weekend, and plans are underway for even more. Today the townspeople and volunteers join together to celebrate this fine example of the great American spirit of neighbor helping neighbor. On behalf of all Americans, I join in commending this noble effort. Now I think most of you know that this sort of voluntarism is something the administration has worked hard to encourage during the past few years. It's been part of our policy of cutting back government while giving free markets and free people a chance to work their magic. And the results have been economic magic. But strange as it seems, while most Americans are delighted by our growth, some people are embarrassed and even resentful. They're the folks who insisted that this administration's domestic program would lead to economic ruin for everyone, especially the poor. Instead, our program led to booming prosperity and a 3-year decline in the poverty rate. And these same folks also said our policy of being firm with the Soviets wouldn't work. But they were wrong again; our toughness stopped Soviet expansionism, restored America's stature, and moved us toward the first major arms reduction treaty in many years. So, you see, America has prospered, and our foreign stature has grown. And this has happened because, on almost every single issue, we've done exactly the opposite of what the old-time liberals here in Washington recommended. But while these have been hard years for the Washington establishment, there was always one area they'd controlled so long they never thought they would have to give it up. They thought of it as a sort of private preserveand that was appointments to the Federal courts. Many of them viewed the courts as a place to put judges who would further their agenda-even if it meant being soft on crime, interpreting the Constitution to please the special interests, and encouraging jurists to make laws that would never be passed by your elected representatives or approved by you, the people. That's why, when a vacancy recently occurred on the United States Supreme Court, I nominated Judge Robert Bork, a man who would be faithful to the kind of judicial restraint envisioned by our Founding Fathers; a judiciary that was independent and strong, yes, but one whose power would also be confined within the boundaries of the Constitution and the laws of the land. For the Founding Fathers the issue was not: Will we have liberal or conservative courts? They knew that the courts, like the Constitution itself, must not be politicized; they knew that the question was, and is: Will we have government by the people? And that's why over the years both progressive and conservative judges have understood the importance of judicial restraint-the principle that says the highest exercise of judicial duty is to subordinate the judge's private views to what the law permits or determines. But now liberal special interest groups seek to politicize the court system; to exercise a chilling effect on judges; to intimidate them into making decisions, not on the basis of the law or the merits of the case, but on the basis of a litmus test or a response to political pressure. These special interests are gravely concerned that Judge Bork's appointment will mean a Supreme Court that practices judicial restraint as our forefathers intended. And that's why the nomination of Judge Bork, a distinguished jurist, has become a distorted, unseemly political campaign. Judge Bork deserves a careful, highly civil examination of his record, but he has been subjected to a constant litany of character assassination and intentional misrepresentation. They are determined to thwart the desire of the American people for judges who understand the real role of the judiciary; judges who seek to interpret the law, not make it; judges who will enforce the law and bring criminals to justice, not turn them loose and make our streets unsafe. Well, don't let them do it. Tell your Senators to resist the politicization of our court system. Tell them you support the appointment of Judge Robert Bork to the Supreme Court. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday afternoon I had a meeting in the White House I won't easily forget. The man who came to see me was Robert Bork, whom I nominated for a position on the highest court in the land, the Supreme Court. Judge Bork was there to tell meafter several days of soul searchingabout a decision he'd made on whether to continue seeking appointment to the Supreme Court. You see, ever since I announced him as my choice, Judge Bork's record has been subjected to distortions and misrepresentations. Indeed, one distinguished Washington commentator has put it very bluntly. He said that if Judge Bork's nomination was defeated, it would be "not on the merits of the case, nor on the debate in the Senate." Former Chief Justice Warren Burger, too, called the tactics used against Judge Bork disinformation but the real test is to the principles that were established by the Founding Fathers when they created the Constitution. The Washington Post columnist David Broder recently wrote: "To subject judges and judicial appointees to propaganda torture tests does terrible damage to the underlying values of this democracy and the safeguards of our freedoms." But despite these courageous words from a few individuals, many here in Washington closed their eyes to the wrong being done to the judicial process. And so, as the opposition grew to Judge Bork, some voices were raised to withdraw his name from nomination. This I refused to do. I knew that any decision made by Judge Bork would be made on solid grounds of principle in contrast to those who would politicize our courts; jeopardize the independence of the judiciary; and hold our courts and Constitution hostage. But while I refused to withdraw his name, I understood why Judge Bork himself might choose to do so. The judge was a distinguished scholar at the Yale University Law School, had served as the Nation's top lawyer in the post of Solicitor General, and his tenure on the Court of Appeals here in Washington has been marked by excellence. So, too, I felt that in many ways he had already won an important victory. During his confirmation hearings, Judge Bork had given us all a national lesson in our legal tradition and the importance of judicial restraint-the belief of our Founding Fathers that it was the role of the judge to interpret the law, not to preempt the rights of the people and their legislatures by making the law. So, I could understand then why Judge Bork might choose to withdraw and simply return to the Court of Appeals. I wish you could have been there as Judge Bork explained his decisionas he looked me in the eye and said we must do not what was right or easy, for himself, but what was right for the country. The best I can do to recreate for you the eloquence and character of this man is to quote from the statement he made shortly after our meeting. Judge Bork said this: "Were the fate of Robert Bork the only matter at stake, I would ask the President to withdraw my nomination. The most serious and lasting injury in all of this, however, is not to me. Rather, it is to the dignity and integrity of law and public service in this country." Judge Bork said a critical principle was at stake. He explained it this way, and again I quote: "Federal judges are not appointed to decide cases according to the latest opinion polls. They are appointed to decide cases impartially, according to law. But when judicial nominees are assessed and treated like political candidates the effect will be to chill the climate in which judicial deliberations take place, to erode public confidence in the impartiality of our judges, and to endanger the independence of the judiciary." My fellow Americans, Andrew Jackson said once that "one man with courage makes a majority." Obviously, Bob Bork has that courage, now let's you and I give him our support. I agree with Judge Bork that there are no illusions. Our judges should be faithful to the written Constitution, the bedrock of our liberties. Those selected for the Supreme Court must be aware of all points of view and their decisions based on government by the people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As I speak to you, Secretary of State George Shultz is on a diplomatic mission that reflects the breadth, the intensity, and the importance of our country's foreign policy efforts. Today he's in the Middle East. He'll meet with the leaders of Israel, Jordan, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia. In the past we've proven ourselves a nation of good will and a reliable ally to these friends and to others. Today our Navy plies the waters of the Persian Gulf helping to keep the shipping lanes open. Freedom of navigation in international waters is a cardinal principle of our policy and, especially in that region of the world, a vital interest. We've had a naval presence in the Gulf since 1949. Any risk to that naval presence or to U.S.-flagged commercial ships operating peacefully in the waters of the Gulf will be dealt with appropriately. Our wider role in the Middle Eastperhaps more than in any other regionis that of peacemaker. We are doing our best to help narrow the differences between Israel and her Arab neighbors so that real negotiations for peace can get started. The desire for peace and the will to make peace are growing in the region. Our job is to help. In the Persian Gulf we play a similar role. Along with the initiative in the United Nations Security Council, we are seeking a peaceful resolution of the Iran-Iraq war-one of the great tragedies of our time. A vigorous diplomatic effort is essential, and that is what Secretary Shultz' mission is all about. After conferring with key leaders of the Middle East, he heads to Moscow. In his talks there, he will bring up the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Gulf war, as well as other conflicts like Afghanistan, Central America, Angola, and Cambodia. We've made it clear that if our two countries are to have better relations we must see a change in Soviet actions in these regional conflicts. We are concerned with human rights in the Soviet Union itself. This has always been at the top of my agenda. It's impossible to have a constructive relationship with a government that tramples upon the rights of its people. There are also, as one would expect, bilateral issues between our two countries concerning trade, travel, and other items that will be on the agenda in Moscow. I've always felt that, even between systems as different as ours, if we remain true to our principles and firm in the advocacy of our own interests, some common ground can be found. This has been the basis of the arms reduction proposals we've made to the Soviet Union. As a result, we're moving toward an agreement that would eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range missiles, known as INFthe first real reductions in nuclear arsenals in history. A number of essential details need to be worked out, however, like effective verification. And our proposals call for the most stringent verification regime in the history of arms control. We can settle for nothing less. We are hopeful, but we're in no rush. There is no politically imposed deadline. It must be done right or not at all. Some have worried that an INF agreement would leave the NATO alliance exposed. Well, I share their concern for European security, but concern over this agreement is misplaced. The kind of INF agreement we're working toward is a tribute to the firmness and solidarity of the alliance. That firmness and solidarity must continue. A sound nuclear arms reduction agreement need not undermine our unity or weaken our nuclear and conventional deterrent which have kept the peace these last four decades. And we will indeed maintain effective deterrent forces. Secretary Shultz will also press hard for an agreement reducing strategic arms. Progress there is possible, but the Soviet Union will have to show far more flexibility than it has up to now. Finally, as Secretary Shultz continues his mission, we would do well to remember Secretary Shultz is not just my representative-he is our representative. Certain proposals in Congress, especially those that would tie our hands or even enact Soviet negotiating positions into American law, don't help us at the bargaining table. And they undermine chances of achieving mutual arms reduction. I can assure you, I will veto any bill with provisions that hurt our national security. I am hoping that we can stand together as America continues to further the twin causes of peace and freedom. I know we all wish our top diplomat Godspeed and a safe return. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The bears and the bulls were out on Wall Street this week with some of the sharpest drops and gains in stock market history. So, what did it all mean? Now, there's a question that the experts and analysts will be pondering for a time. But on one point I've been certain all week, and it's a point that's been buttressed by some good economic news released on Friday. This news shows that the growth of our gross national product during this last quarter was a remarkable 3.8 percent. So, too, the inflation index showed only a two-tenths of 1-percent rise, which if worked out to an annual rate would be only a 2.4-percent inflation rate. What this shows is that our predictions about the direction of the economy this year have been right on: strong growth with a slight rise followed by an encouraging drop in inflation. Now, coupled with the declining interest rates we saw earlier this week, all this speaks to the point I made after Monday's drop in stock prices: that the American economy is sound and strong. Our historic, even astonishing, growth is continuingthe creation of nearly 14 million jobs, hundreds of thousands of new businesses, rapid rises in family incomeall adding up to 59 months of economic expansion, the longest peacetime expansion in our history. Though the market has been volatile, let's remember, if corrections or fluctuations do occur, that as long as consumers do not overreact by losing confidence our expansion will continue. Let's also remember a critical reason for this expansion was our decision to reduce taxes in 1981. I'm sure many of you know it was very difficult getting this through the Congress, although with your help we achieved it. And despite all the predictions of high inflation from our opponents, our tax cuts not only fueled our expansion, they had a benefit that surprised some people: Far from reducing the amount of money the Federal Government collected in tax revenues, over the long run, those collections actually increased due to the economic activity sparked by the tax cuts. In fact, tax revenues from 1981 to 1987 actually went up $255 billion. Of course, this meant we had enough to pay for our defense buildup and some left over to help get our deficit spending problems under control. But instead of using new revenues to cut the deficit, the Congress decided to spend even more. In 1982, for example, TEFRA, as it was called, the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act, raised taxes by $131 billion over 4 years, with Congress pledging to slash spending by $3 for every dollar of increased revenue. Instead, 4 years later, taxes had gone up the expected $131 billion, but spending over this same period had risen by $244 billion. In fact, every dollar in increased revenue since 1980 had been matched by $1.25 of increased spending. Now, 3 days ago, I called on the congressional leaders to meet with me early next week to outline our deficit reduction plans. And as we move toward a budget settlement, it's good to remember that there's a fundamental difference here in Washington on one critical issue. I'm proud that since 1913 my party has reduced taxes 10 times and increased them only once. And that's why I hope members of the Democratic Party will follow President Kennedy's lead of some years ago and remember that lower taxes mean higher growth. But the simple fact is that all sides must contribute to this process if it is to succeed and if a package is to be developed that keeps taxes and spending as low as possible. This effort must also address the flip side of our twin deficit problem. I mean, here, our trade deficit, a problem that would only be worsened by protectionist legislation. So, let's keep the stock market healthy and sound, and let's do it by avoiding protectionist legislation and by keeping taxes and spending down so we can keep interest rates and inflation rates low. As prominent as the news on Wall Street was this week, I'm sure you are also aware that Secretary Shultz and my national security adviser, Frank Carlucci, were in Moscow this week to talk to the Soviet leaders on the full range of our relations. We're closer now to completing a treaty on eliminating an entire class of U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range nuclear missiles, and progress was made in other areas as well. No date was set for a summit meeting, but we're in no hurry. And we certainly will not be pushed into sacrificing essential interests just to have a meeting. I'll keep you informed as events move forward. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'm speaking to you today by a taped message, because I am away from Washington and my usual microphone. But I'd like to take a few minutes to talk to you about two issues that have occupied our Nation's Capital this past week, issues that will affect the lives of all Americans for years to come. The first has to do with the Supreme Court. This week I nominated Judge Douglas Ginsburg of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to fill the open seat on the Court. Judge Ginsburg is the kind of Justice I want on the Court. This means that he believes, as I do, as every judge I have nominated or will ever nominate must, that the proper role of the judiciary is to interpret the laws, not make them. It means that he believes that in our democracy it is for the elected representatives of the people to make the laws and that unelected judges must never attempt to substitute their private will for the will of the people. You see, Judge Ginsburg remembers, as I do, the warning of James Madison that "if the sense in which the Constitution was accepted and ratified by the Nation is not the guide to expounding it, there can be no security for the faithful exercise of its powers." My concern is that in recent years too many judges have forgotten that one of the goals of our Founding Fathers was to ensure domestic tranquility. Too many judges have reinterpreted the Constitution, got away from the original intent of the Founders and, in the process, made law enforcement a game in which clever lawyers try to find ways to trip up the police. Our courts must protect the rights of all Americans, and that includes the rights of the victims of crime and of society, not just of criminals. I believe that Judge Ginsburg will do just that. He has had a distinguished legal career that has included teaching at the Harvard Law School and serving as a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and as an Assistant U.S. Attorney General. As the Senate takes up Judge Ginsburg's nomination, I hope that it will join with me in defending the integrity and independence of the American system of justice against the kind of campaign of pressure politics we saw during the consideration of Judge Robert Bork's nomination. The way to show its determination to prevent such a campaign from happening again is for the Senate to insist that the Judiciary Committee hold hearings promptly, no delays to gear up opposition or support for this nomination-prompt hearings. You have a right to expect nothing less. The other issue I wanted to talk about is the economy. Our economic expansion continues strong. In November it will enter the history books as the longest peacetime expansion on record. During the expansion we've created nearly 14 million new jobs. Employment levels this year have been the highest ever recorded. Industrial production is rising strongly, much of it because our manufacturers are exporting more. Despite the trade deficit, since the day I was sworn in for my second term, America's total real exports have risen at a powerful annual rate of over 8 percent. And the budget deficit is on the way down. This week it became official: The budget deficit was $73 billion smaller in the fiscal year that just ended than it was the year before. And what's more, it was technically within the range of what was called for in the original Gramm-Rudman-Hollings bill. Now, that's good news, but in the last few months, I've warned that we could end the expansion and send the economy into a tailspin. Well, now the stock market is giving its own warning. And there are some steps we can take in Washington to deal with the Federal deficit, to reject moves toward trade protectionism, and to examine the stock market mechanism and procedures. This week leaders of Congress sat down with me and members of my administration to talk about the budget deficit. These were bipartisan meetings to make sure the budget deficit comes down again this year by at least $23 billion. If we can do that, it'll be the first time deficits have dropped 2 years in a row since 1974. But cutting deficit spending can no longer be a sometime thing. Let's resolve that from now on we will join together each year to bring it down again until the budget is balanced. When we cut spending, it must stay cut, no coming back to next year with new programs or replacing old reductions with new increases. From now on, deficit cuts, like diamonds, must be forever. The world is looking to Washington for leadership. So, I say to the leaders in Congress: Let's roll up our sleeves, pull together. The things we want aren't all that differenta better life for all Americans. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Last week, news from the Philippines reminded us all of both the friendship of the Filipino people and their struggles. The gesture of friendship came when Philippine President Corazon Aquino paid a visit to Clark Air Base outside of Manila to attend a memorial service for American airmen slain by terrorists. I have told President Aquino how much all Americans appreciate her thoughtfulness. These murders bring home to all of us the troubles and threats that the new Philippine democracy faces. Twenty months ago, we applauded as President Corazon Aquino's peaceful revolution began moving the Philippines back toward popular rule. Since then, President Aquino has been more successful than many believed was possible. Within this last year-and-a-half, she has led a successful campaign to ratify a new, more democratic constitution, and she has overseen the first free congressional elections in 15 yearselections in which an overwhelming majority of the people participated. Now she's working with the newly elected Congress to solve that nation's serious economic problems. President Aquino believes, as I do, that free enterprise is the most powerful engine of economic progress known to humanity. She has inaugurated an ambitious reform program that has ended a sharp recession and boosted annual economic growth to 5 percent. She has begun to reform the tax system, dismantle monopolies, privatize or eliminate inefficient government-owned industries, and reduce barriers to international trade and investment. These are all reasons for optimism, but there are reasons for concern as well. The single most serious threat to the survival of democratic government in the Philippines remains the Communist insurgency. As a result of the restoration of democracy, that insurgency has lost political momentum; still it continues, becoming more violent as it becomes more desperate. But even as she confronts the threat of Communist guerrillas, President Aquino must also rebuild the Philippine Armed Forces. She has had to reassert the principle of civilian supremacy over the military, while at the same time resolve honest differences over how best to defeat the Communist insurgency. Not everyone in the military has been happy about the new civilian role. President Aquino has faced five attempted coups since taking office. I've made it clear to all concerned that Filipino democracy and President Aquino have America's full support. We hope all elements in the Philippine Government, both civilian and military, will work together to find common ground. Division between government and its armed forces can only help the Communist insurgents, who are bent on destruction of freedom and democracy in the Philippines. Few countries are as strategically important to the United States as the Philippines, and we have a moral obligation to help all democracies succeed. That's why I have recently underscored to American business leaders that the United States is committed to Philippine economic recovery. I told them that we believe there are great opportunities for American investors in the Philippines, and I reminded them that, while building the economy, our men and women of enterprise will also be helping to build a stable and democratic future for that nation. I've also asked Congress to help. I've requested substantial economic and military assistance for the Philippines. While we'd like to do more, budgetary constraints may limit what we can do, but this is one area where we can't afford to cut corners. The people of the Philippines are counting on us. One way Congress could do a lot is to reform our sugar program, as I proposed earlier this year. We will work with President Aquino to build a safer home for democracy in the Philippines. Most of the responsibility belongs to the people of the Philippines, but we can and will lend a hand. Now, let me turn for a moment to another area of the world where brave men and women are working for democracy. I mean Central America. This week the Guatemala peace accord went into effect. The world is waiting to see if the Sandinistas in Nicaragua keep the promises they made to the other Central American Governments when they signed that agreement. Will they fulfill both the letter and spirit of the agreement? In particular, will they institute the steps necessary for the democratization of Nicaragua? Will they allow freedom to prosper as the agreements demand? Will they begin the process of national reconciliation? And will they take full steps, not partial steps? The United States will be watching to see if the Sandinistas were sincere when they signed the Guatemala accord or if their signature was just one more propaganda ploy. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week has been a busy and important one here in Washington. And in reporting to you about it, there are three topics in particular that I'd like to discussfirst, my announcement on Wednesday that I intend to nominate United States Circuit Court Judge Anthony Kennedy to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Judge Kennedy's background includes many years as a practicing lawyer, first with a major firm, then in practice on his own; more than two decades of teaching law; and service since 1975 on the United States Court of Appeals, the second highest court in the land. Judge Kennedy shares my fundamental legal philosophy of judicial restraint-the conviction that judges should interpret the law, not make itthat, in other words, judges should be umpires, not players. It happens that this is not the first time I've called on Judge Kennedy for an important government job. As Governor of California back in 1973, I asked Judge Kennedy, then a lawyer in private practice, to take the lead in drafting a complex constitutional amendment and to have the work completed in less than 8 weeks. Thanks to Judge Kennedy's remarkable skill and determination, 8 weeks later, the job was done. In choosing to nominate Judge Kennedy to the Supreme Court, I've kept in mind the fact that criminal cases make up the largest category of cases the Supreme Court must decide. These cases are especially important to the poor, inner-city residents, and minority groups, since these Americans are victimized by crime to a disproportionate extent. Judge Kennedy's record on criminal law is clear; indeed, he has participated in hundreds of criminal law decisions. He has earned a reputation as a jurist who is tough, but fair. His decisions have helped, rather than hindered, the search for truth in the courtroom. And he's been sensitive to the needs of law enforcement professionals, who each day risk their lives in the real world of street crime and violence. Judge Kennedy has already won bipartisan praise from the Senate, and I know you join me in looking forward to prompt Senate hearings, conducted in a spirit of cooperation. Every day that passes with the Supreme Court below full strength impairs the people's business in that crucially important body. The second topic I want to discuss with you is Central America, for it was this week that the Guatemala accord went into effect. As I said Monday in a speech to foreign ministers from Central America, as we look at how the Guatemala accord has been implemented to date, we have to conclude that the differences between the democracies and the Communists in Central America have never been so apparent. The Communists in Nicaragua refuse to lift their state of emergency, but the democracies of El Salvador and Guatemala countries that are also torn by violencemake no excuses and have no states of emergency. In Nicaragua, too, the Communists' release of political prisoners has been partial and grudging. Thousands of political prisoners remain in their jails. Yet there has been one good sign. I welcome the designation of Cardinal Obando y Bravoa man who himself has suffered much at the hands of the Nicaraguan Communistsas the mediator in Nicaragua between the Communist regime and the democratic resistance, or freedom fighters. This is a Nicaraguan conflict that should be resolved between Nicaraguans. And as I said Monday: When serious negotiations between the Communists and the resistance have begun under Cardinal Obando's mediation, then Secretary Shultz will be ready to meet jointly with the foreign ministers of all five Central American nations, including the Sandinistas' representative. But whatever the specific developments in Central America in the coming days, the United States will continue to stress that democracy must come first. As Nobel Prize winner President Arias has said: "The day the Sandinistas or another political movement are chosen freely in elections accepted by all Nicaraguans, there will be no more reason for violence." Finally, I want you to know that throughout the week, administration representatives and Members of the House and Senate continued negotiations aimed at cutting the Federal deficit. The negotiators are seeking to strike a bargain that would cut some $30 billion from the Federal deficit during 1988 and as much as $50 billion in 1989. As Senator Domenici put it: "We made headway on everything; we just didn't reach closure yet." The bipartisan cooperation that has been evident in these negotiations is encouraging. I'm confident that this coming week the negotiators will agree to a deficit-cutting package that is fair and enforceable. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a moment I'd like to tell you about our efforts this past week to cut the Federal deficit in order to keep the American economy growing and strong. First, though, I'd like to stress that very fact. Despite stock market fluctuations, despite all you may have heard to the contrary, the truth is: The American economy remains growing and strong. As usual with economics, it's the figures that tell the story. During the third quarter of this year, our gross national product rose at a healthy annual rate of 3.8 percent. This was spurred in turn by new business investment, which is soaring at a truly remarkable rate of 24 percent. Inflation is down. Manufacturing productivity is up. Real exports, too, are up and rising at an annual rate of nearly 17 percent. One set of figures is especially important: the figures that concern the more than 14 million new jobs that have been created since this economic expansion began some 59 months ago. That's 2 1/2 times more new jobs than have been created in the other major industrialized countries since 1982, and you might think it's something for us Americans to take pride in. But some have tried to pooh-pooh this tremendous achievement, distorting the record in the process. Last December, for example, a study was presented to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, which claimed that, while millions of new jobs have indeed been created, most of these are basically bad jobs, with well over half paying only about $7,000 a year or less. Well, since then at least two major investigations have shown that study to be wrong. The Department of Labor has put out evidence showing an exactly opposite trend toward higher paying jobs. And last month the prestigious American Enterprise Institute here in Washington called a press conference to present the results of its own exhaustive and scholarly study. The American Enterprise Institute study found that over the past 20 yearsand I quote"there has been no rise in the share of new jobs with low earnings, but instead a slight increase in the share at the upper end of the earnings distribution." Well, you should know that when the misleading Joint Economic Committee study was first released, it made virtually every network news show, national magazine, and major newspaper. But when the American Enterprise Institute study was released, only one major newspaper, one major magazine, a handful of local journalists, and not a single television network sent reporters. So, as I said, our economy is in fundamentally good condition. And when you hear reports of doom and gloom to the contrary, well, please take them with a grain of salt. And now to tell you about our success this week in reaching an agreement that will reduce the Federal deficit still further: When the stock market took its dramatic plunge last month, it became clear that the time had come for dramatic action. And for some 20 days, my representatives met with negotiators from the Congress, struggling to work out a credible and reliable deficit reduction plan. Just yesterday I was able to announce that a bipartisan agreement was indeed reached, an agreement that would cut the deficit not just for one year but for two. As with all agreements that result from long and difficult negotiation, this agreement is probably not the very best deal that could have been struck. But we have to begin somewhere, and I believe this agreement represents just that: a good, solid beginning. It provides the necessary services for our people, maintains our national security, and does both at a level that will not overburden our taxpayersin a word, fairness. And while efforts to cut the deficit still further must certainly continue, this agreement will send the right message at the right time, both to our own financial markets and to markets and governments around the world: Decisively, doggedly, and in a spirit of cooperation, the United States has chosen to act. My thanks and congratulations to the congressional leadership and the budget negotiators for all their hard work. Now each of us, Republican and Democrat alike, must work to reach our vital goal: a sound and enforceable United States budget. We have built a solid economic foundation that has made our economy stronger, more competitive, and better prepared than ever to meet the challenge of tomorrow. If we pursue the right policies, our future will be even brighter. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a moment I'd like to talk with you about the coming summit meeting between myself and General Secretary Gorbachev. But first I wonder whether you'd join me in doing again now what so many of us did with our families just 2 days ago: pausing to consider all that we have to be grateful for. America today is at peace. Despite some ups and downs, our economy remains strong and growing. And if Thanksgiving is a time to think especially for the less fortunate among us, then surely we must give thanks during this economic expansion that the number of Americans living in poverty has fallen to the lowest level in 5 years. With economic growth, too, has come an increase in private charity. Private contributions to charity have set new records in each of the past 4 years. Who can doubt that we do indeed owe our Creator a profound debt of thanks? For after 200 years, ours is still a nation of freedom and, yes, of goodness. As you know in 10 days' time, I will be meeting in Washington with General Secretary Gorbachev. If all goes well, he and I will sign an agreement that will for the first time in history eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. But this agreement must be seen in the context of our wider relations with the Soviet Union. Our administration has insisted from the first upon dealing with the Soviets in each of four crucial areas. Human rights is one. Human rights, after all, is what our nation is all about. In this area, we've seen a certain amount of progress: Some political prisoners in the Soviet Union have been released, immigration rates have seen a slight rise, and there's been talk about granting the Soviet peoples some very limited new economic freedoms. Yet all of this remains much, much too little, and human rights will remain on my agenda when I meet Mr. Gorbachev. Expanding bilateral relations, especially people-to-people exchanges, is the second area we've stressed. Here, too, we've seen a certain amount of progress, notably in cultural exchanges following my first summit meeting with Mr. Gorbachev in Geneva. The Bolshoi Ballet has toured the United States, and many American artists have visited the Soviet Union in turn. I think in particular of the historic return to Moscow last year of pianist Vladimir Horowitzhis first visit to Russia in more than 60 years. Regional conflicts represent the third major point in U.S.-Soviet relations, and the American position can be stated very simply: Wherever in the world the Soviets or their clients are seeking to advance their interests by forcein Nicaragua, in Afghanistan, in Angola, in Cambodia, or elsewherethey must stop and let the people of these countries choose their own destinies. And I can assure you, this will be at the top of my agenda for Mr. Gorbachev. I will remind him that Soviet conduct in these areas remains a major impediment to improved U.S.-Soviet relations. This brings me to the fourth major topic on our agenda, namely, my search for a better way to deter aggression and ensure security than through the threat of offensive nuclear retaliation. One answer has been our Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDIour work on a defensive system that will shield us and our allies while threatening no one. A second answer has been arms reduction negotiations with the Soviets, negotiations that have produced the INF agreement that Mr. Gorbachev and I expect to sign. This agreement, as I said, will eliminate an entire class of Soviet and American intermediate-range missiles. For every deployed warhead of our own that we remove, they will give up almost four. Since the Soviets have a record of violating arms agreements, we're insisting on the most stringent verification regime in arms control history. And we will go on to press the Soviets for progress in the START talks, where we've proposed 50-percent reductions in both sides' strategic arsenals. But the Soviets are going to have to drop their tactic of holding strategic arms reduction hostage to their efforts to cripple our SDI program. Let me assure you, SDI is not a bargaining chip. It is the path to a safer future. Make no mistake, the Soviets are and will continue to be our adversaries, the adversaries, indeed, of all who believe in human liberty. Yet as we work to advance the cause of liberty, we must deal with the Soviets soberly and from strength and in the name of peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In a moment I'd like to discuss the coming summit meeting between myself and General Secretary Gorbachev. But first, let me tell you about a pressing domestic matter: the recent budget agreement between our administration and congressional leaders that will soon go before the full Congress for a vote. As I've said since I announced it 2 weeks ago, this budget agreement is not perfect, but it happens to be both adequate and the best we were able to get. The agreement will cut the Federal deficit by some $76 billion over the next 2 years and will put a cap on spending for fiscal year 1989. That's a considerable achievement, and one that reassures the financial markets about the determination and willingness of your leaders here in Washington to get the budget process back under control. It's important to keep in mind that this agreement preserves our national security and protects vital domestic programs, such as air safety. But perhaps the best aspect of the entire budget agreement is what it doesn't do. You see, it doesn't impose any new across-the-board taxes, and that means it doesn't touch marginal income tax rates, the very heart and soul of economic incentives. So, our tax reforms of 1981 and 1986 will remain in effect, and your income tax rates will stay lowand in some cases, drop even lower with the beginning of the new year. What does this mean for the economy as a whole? The answer lies in one word: growth. After all, it was in 1982, after our administration's first tax rate cuts had gone into effect that today's economic expansion began. The current budget agreement will protect your low tax rates and keep our economy growing strong. So, I urge you to join me in asking Congress to vote yes on this budget agreement with all due speed. Let me turn now to the summit meeting. The agenda for talks between myself and Mr. Gorbachev will be determined by the four-part agenda for United States-Soviet relations that our administration has always insisted on: human rights; bilateral relations, in particular, people-to-people contacts; regional conflicts; and arms reductions. I've spoken of this four-part agenda before, but it seems to me that, especially now, it needs to be restated. On human rights, yes, we've seen the Soviet Union release some political prisoners, but thousands more remain in prison. And political, religious, and economic oppression remains a solemn concern of the United States. So, I will raise human rights forcefully during our meetings. And it's one of my deepest hopes that during this, his first visit to America, Mr. Gorbachev will have an opportunity to sense something of the dignity and power of human liberty. People-to-people contacts between our two countries have already been expanded, but I will ask Mr. Gorbachev: Why not more? Why should the people of America and the Soviet Union not travel as freely to each others' countries as do, for example, the people of America and Western Europe? On regional conflicts, the peoples of Nicaragua, Afghanistan, Angola, and Cambodia are entitled to free, independent, and democratically chosen governments. And I will make it unmistakably clear that we view the freedom and independence of Nicaraguaa country on our very own continent-as vital to our own national security. Regarding Afghanistan, the Soviets assure us of their intention to get out. Well, we'll ask them to set a date certain for their withdrawal and talk to the freedom fighters. And I will assure Mr. Gorbachev that the United States will do all it can to help speed a Soviet withdrawal. On arms reductions, Mr. Gorbachev and I will be able to celebrate a joint achievement: the signing of a treaty completely eliminating an entire class of American and Soviet intermediate-range nuclear missiles. You'll be hearing much about the details of this treaty in coming days. For now, permit me to say only that it represents a good bargain, one that completely meets the Long-standing goals of the United States and our allies, and advances the interests of peace. And this brings me to the final thought I'd like to share. Yes, deep, fundamental differences separate us from the Soviets, differences that center upon our own belief in God and human freedom, differences that we cannot compromise. Yet even as we Americans strive to spread freedom through the world, we must also recognize our obligation to ensure the peace, in particular, to search for areas where America and the Soviet Union can act together to reduce the risk of war. This summit meeting and treaty represent just that: steps taken together to ensure the peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As you know, we had an important visitor in Washington this week. General Secretary Gorbachev was in town for only 3 days, but though our time was short, we accomplished much. Now, with all the reports of INF, ICBM's, and SDI you've been hearing the last few days, I wouldn't be surprised if some people are a little bit confused by all those letterssounds like alphabet soup. So, let me just begin by trying to put all this into English that everybody can understand. INF stands for intermediate-range nuclear forces. They include nuclear missiles deployed in the Soviet Union and Europe. When the Soviets first started deploying new INF missiles in the 1970's, the triple-warhead SS-20's, they represented a totally new nuclear threat to our friends in Europe and Asia for which we had no comparable counter. In response, despite intense pressure exerted by the Soviet Union in Europe, NATO decided in 1979 that we would deploy a limited number of comparable missiles and, at the same time, push hard in negotiations to do away with this new nuclear threat. In 1981 I first proposed what would come to be called the zero option. It called for the complete elimination of these U.S. and Soviet missiles on both sides. The Soviets stonewalled. At first, many called it a mere propaganda ploysome even here in this countrybut we were patient and persistent. For the first time in history, in the treaty that General Secretary Gorbachev and I just signed, arms control has been replaced by arms reduction. Well, actually, I should say arms elimination, because with this treaty an entire class of INF missiles, both U.S. and Soviet, will be destroyed. Now, the Soviets presently have many more INF missiles than we do, so they'll be destroying some 1,600 deployed warheads, while we destroy about 400. Now that the treaty has been signed, it will be submitted to the Senate for the next step: the ratification process. I met with the leadership of Congress yesterday morning, and I am confident that the Senate will now act in an expeditious way to fulfill its duty under our Constitution. So, I hope in the near future INF will be one part of the alphabet soup you won't have to remember. Other letters you'll hear more about are START, strategic arms reduction talks, because we've made progress toward 50-percent reductions in strategic nuclear arsenals. This could be another historic achievement, provided the Soviets don't try to hold it hostage to restrictions on SDI. SDI stands for our Strategic Defense Initiative, the high-tech defense we're investigating to protect America and its allies against ballistic missile attack. When I met with General Secretary Gorbachev in Geneva in 1985 and in Reykjavik, Iceland, last year, he exerted every bit of pressure he could to try to make us give up SDI. Well, I, of course, had to disappoint him each time. Building a defense against nuclear weapons is a moral as well as strategic imperative, and we will never give it up. Our bottom line on SDI is simple: We will research it; we will test it. And when it is ready, we will deploy it. The Soviets have persisted in efforts to limit our vital testing in this area. But providing a strategic defense is too important to restrict the promise it holds for future generations. Defense, not just offensethat is the promise SDI holds. The fact isand I'm afraid most of us in this country aren't fully aware of this factthe United States presently has to rely on a policy in which our nations hold each other hostage to nuclear terror and destruction. This is an intolerable situation. We will move forward with SDI; it is our moral duty. Now, I don't want you to think that this summit was taken up exclusively with arms reduction. I talked extensively with Mr. Gorbachev about our insistence that his policy of glasnost become more than a slogan, that we begin to see real progress on human rights. As I emphasized to Mr. Gorbachev, nothing would convince us of the sincerity of glasnost so much as seeing progress in emigration, release of political prisoners, and allowing his people their most basic right to worship their Maker in peace, free of fear. Finally, we talked directly about regional issues such as Afghanistan, Iran-Iraq, Angola, Cambodia, and Nicaragua. We stressed the urgency of action between our two countries in order to bring more cooperation to our efforts to resolve these conflicts on terms that promote peace and freedom. So, we have a long road to travel. But we've taken important steps, and with your help we'll make that journey. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As we approach the end of the year, I thought I'd give you a brief update on several important issues. First, the historic treaty we signed last week eliminating an entire class of U.S. and Soviet INF missiles-it's taken 6 years of tough negotiating to get this far, but signing a treaty doesn't end the process. It must now go before the full Senate for ratification. They will certainly want to look very closely at this complex treaty, but I'm confident that once they do they'll find it solid, verifiable, and most definitely in America's interest. Well, next let's turn to events on the other side of the world. South Korea has long been a brave, free world outpost on the border of a hostile northern neighbor. Economically one of the freest nations on Earth, they have demonstrated to the world the wonders of economic liberty. In three short decades, South Korea's vibrant free markets have catapulted that nation out of the ranks of the Third World and into the forefront of world economic growth. South Korea has long known most of the freedoms we now enjoy in this country: freedom to work where and how one pleases, freedom of speech, freedom of worship. And this week, South Korea has taken a great stride toward full democracy. For the first time in 16 years, they voted in a direct election for their President. Ninety percent of the country turned out to show its commitment to the democratic process. Mr. Roh Tae Woo, the candidate of the Democratic Justice Party, has emerged the winner by almost 2 million votes, and I've sent my congratulations to him. But the most important victory is for democracy. As Americans know, and as Koreans are finding out, elections have losers as well as winners. The essence of democracy is the willingness to accept the results and, perhaps, to try again at the next election. I particularly welcome Mr. Roh's calls for reconciliation as he undertakes to form a government with broad national support. We look forward to continuing cooperation in security and trade and competing in next September's Olympics in Seoul. Now, if I may return to Washington, I'd like to speak for a moment on the budget process. I have often criticized Congress' habit of putting the appropriations for almost the entire Federal Government into one mammoth bill called a continuing resolution. Each year, I'm given a choice: hold my nose and swallow it whole, wasteful spending and all, or veto the entire bill, closing down much of the Federal Government. I do not believe that this is what the Founding Fathers had in mind when they gave the President the power to veto individual appropriations bills. That said, I expect this year's continuing resolution to meet the budget agreements worked out between the administration and the congressional leadership. One item we'll be looking very closely to see included is funding for the freedom fighters in Nicaragua. Recently, a high-ranking defector from the Sandinista Communist government has come forward with some shocking revelations. The Nicaraguan Communists, it seems, have been planning all along to use the Central American peace process as a weapon to consolidate their power. Daniel Ortega as much as confirmed this last week when he publicly stated that, elections or no elections, the Sandinista Communists would never give up power. To make sure they would never have to, the Sandinistas have negotiated a secret agreement with the Soviets and Cubans that calls for a major military escalation in Nicaragua over the next 7 years, including the delivery of MIG-21 jet fighters and enough military supplies to increase the army to 500,000 soldiers. Such an escalation would create an unprecedented threat to the national security of the United States. As these secret plans were being made public, the Sandinistas' Defense Minister confirmed them-bragging, in fact, of a 600,000-man army by 1995. So, it's clear to all but the most naive that the Sandinista Communists have been cynically manipulating the peace process, trying to lull others into a false sense of security while they busily plan military dominance of the entire region. It has never been more clear why we must fund the freedom fighters. The freedom fighters brought the Sandinistas to the negotiating table; only the freedom fighters can keep them there. That's why our continued support is imperative and why I will insist that the continuing resolution contains adequate funding for adequate aid. If there were any doubts before, it's certainly clear now: Making sure the freedom fighters remain a viable force in Nicaragua is the only way to make the peace process go forward, to give peace and democracy a chance in Nicaragua. Until next week, thank you, and God bless you all.\par
My fellow Americans: Nancy and I hope you and your family are enjoying this holiday season. This is a time of two religious observances which go to the heart of America's Judeo-Christian heritage: Christmas and Hanukkah. This is also a traditional time of merriment and good cheer, a time of family and home and of Christmas trees and gift-giving. That spirit of generosity that is so evident during the holiday season is something we've tried to foster during the past 7 years of this administration. Here at the White House, we call it the Private Sector Initiative Program. You probably think of it as good, oldfashioned Americanismneighbor helping neighbor. One of the opportunities my current job affords me is having the access to information that gives me a broad picture of what is happening throughout our country. There is always much to improve. But I can assure you that the spirit of good will and benevolence, an aspect of our national character recognized since the early days of our Republic, remains a vibrant part of the American way of life. You may be surprised to learn, for example, that since 1980 charitable giving in the United States has increased 77 percent, from $49.08 billion to $87.22 billion in 1986. I don't think there's any better gauge for the soul of a nation or the essential goodness of a people than an accounting of their personal involvement in helping others, either through donations of money or time. And voluntarism is still a strong force in communities throughout our country. The stories are as numerous as they are heartwarming. One of them is about an engineer from Vicksburg, Mississippi, named Bob Carver. For 5 years straight, Bob spent the holiday season driving a truck to raise money for the Salvation Army. To date, he has raised over $20,000, which has bought Christmas toys and food for the needy, sent children to summer camp, and helped pay the utility bills for the elderly. Bob uses his annual leave to haul cargo for his tractor-trailer rig, which is affectionately known as the "Santa Express." The profits go to helping others. God bless you, Bob. Then there's Ruth Heywood, of Casa Grande, Arizonaa single woman, 74 years old, living only on her pension benefits. Even though her own financial resources are limited, she overflows with love and is dedicated to helping others. Each year she spearheads a local effort to provide the needy and the poor in spirit a festive Thanksgiving and Christmas celebration. Ruth provides the energy and the inspiration. As the holiday season approaches, she visits grocers all over town to solicit donations of food, plates, and utensils. She coordinates transportation and arranges meals to be delivered to the homebound. She also handwrites hundreds of invitations and personally gives them to the less-fortunate citizens of her community. Every year people who thought they were unloved and forgotten are shown that people do care. The people of Casa Grande are proud of Ruth. We can all be proud of her. I recently received a letter from David Rayl of Bald Knob, Arkansas, telling me about how, with hard work and private and corporate donations, he is able to play Santa to hundreds of needy families. His yearly project makes a lot of kids happy who otherwise might face a bleak holiday. David, who teaches at a local elementary school, added in his letter, "Perhaps you're not too interested in something this small, but small things add up to big things." Well, I happen to believe that it is the small things, the little acts of love and kindness happening every day across this country, that make us a great nation. Yes, small things add up to big things. This country can be no greater than the goodness of its people. Most of us know someone like Bob Carver, Ruth Heywood, or David Rayl. Down deep, who cannot but respect such heroes? I'd like to think there's a little of them in each and every American. Certainly, from our earliest days, we weren't waiting for the Government or depending on the bureaucracy before we helped each other. President Thomas Jefferson once wrote: "I deem it the duty of every man to devote a certain portion of his income for charitable purposes, and that it is his further duty to see it so applied as to do the most good of which it is capable." Helping others is just our way, part of our national character. Perhaps it reflects that we as a people not only enjoy this holiday every year as time off from work but also take to heart the spiritual meaning of Christmas and Hanukkah. Finally, Nancy and I want to wish each of you our very best wishes for the New Year. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This is the first time I will have spoken to you in 1988, so let me begin by saying very simply what your friends and neighbors will have said to you already: Happy New Year! And as Americans, we do indeed have much to be happy about as this New Year commences. Our nation is at peace. Our economy is growing with new jobs being created at the rate of more than 200,000 a month. But of course, there is still much to be done. Join me then in considering some of the issues that we'll be facing as 1988 gets under way. The first matter I want to mention is one already before the Congress: the confirmation of Judge Anthony Kennedy to a seat on the Supreme Court. The Senate hearings on Judge Kennedy have already taken place. You may have seen portions of the hearings on television. He made clear his belief that it's a judge's job to interpret the law, not make it. And on an issue that affects every AmericancrimeJudge Kennedy's testimony and record are clear. Judges must respect the rights of the accused, but they must also keep firmly in mind the rights of crime victims and of society itself. The Supreme Court has been one Justice short for many months now. So, I urge the Senate to confirm Judge Kennedy with all due speed. The next item I want to discuss with you is one that touches on my recent summit meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. You will remember that Mr. Gorbachev and I signed a treaty on the first day of that summit, and now our administration will forward that treaty to the Senate for its advice and consent. You will hear me speak more about this treaty, the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, in the days ahead. For now, let me just say this: Under this treaty, for the first time in history, an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles will be eliminated. The Soviets will be forced to destroy four times as many deployed warheads as will we. And the verification procedures in the treaty are the most stringent in the history of arms control negotiations. What does this add up to? A good deal for the United States and our allies and a step toward a more secure peace for all the world. I welcome the hearings the Senate will hold on this treaty. Yet here again, I urge the Senate to move forward on ratification. Next, the economyI don't want to delve into ancient history as this New Year begins, but it's important to keep in mind what the economy our administration inherited some 7 years ago was like: double-digit inflation, the highest interest rates since the Civil War, rising unemployment. Our economic program changed all that and changed it so dramatically that today America has completed its 61st month of economic growth with low inflation. And just what was our economic program? We cut the number of government regulations and slowed the rate of growth of government itself. But most important, we reformed the tax code and cut individual income tax rates, restoring incentives for hard work, risktaking, and innovation. In an hour, I will be signing the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement, a truly historic pact that will create more jobs and lower prices for consumers on both sides of the border. It is a win-win situation for both countries. Even more importantly, the agreement is an example of the market-opening steps the entire world should be pursuing and which the United States will push in the new Uruguay round of the GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations]. Protectionist measures, some of which are in the trade bills passed by the House and Senate, are backward looking, not forward looking. Finally, of course, 1988 is an election year, a year in which we will choose new officials at all levels and, yes, a new President. To tell you the truth, I've always loved election yearsthe rallies, the excitement, all of it so American. But more than the excitement, something of immense importance will be taking place, for this year we will be taking stock of ourselves as a nation and deciding in a free and peaceful democratic electionthat is still the marvel of much of the worldwhere our highest hopes and dreams will lead us. Yes, in 1988, the 212th year of our independence and the 201st of our Constitution, ours remains a free nation truly ruled by we the people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: If someone were to ask us as a nation who our best friends are, what would be the answer? It's difficult to imagine any better friends than our neighbors, the Canadians. Our two peoples have lived, side by side, in peace and with the spirit of good will for the better part of two centuries. Winston Churchill once noted: "That long Canadian frontier from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans, guarded only by neighborly respect and honorable obligations, is an example to every country and a pattern for the future of the world." Churchill, as usual, was as profound as he was eloquent. It wouldn't surprise him to find out that the citizens of Canada and the United States are moving together toward a truly historic achievement. Last week Prime Minister Mulroney and I entered into a free trade agreement, which once approved by the United States Congress and the Canadian Parliament will establish our two countries as the world's largest free trade area. The U.S.-Canadian free trade agreement is the culmination of 18 months of strenuous negotiations between our governments. Both Prime Minister Mulroney and I played an active role in the process, keeping the negotiations on track and ensuring that the outcome would be absolutely fair and equitable. Frankly, I think we've come up with a winner, a winner for people on both sides of the border. Canada and the United States are already each other's largest trading partners. Our bilateral trade in goods and services exceeded $150 billion in 1986. The economic health and national security of our countries are linked. This well-honed treaty will build on these ties that already exist and open up tremendous new potential. The treaty will, over a 10-year period, eliminate the tariffs and bring down most of the trade barriers that now serve only to tax or impede the commerce between our two peoples. What will this accomplish? Numerous studies have shown that the agreement will mean billions of dollars in new economic growth for both countries each year. This means thousands of new jobs, increased investment, and expanding opportunities. And it's not just the export industries which will reap the rewards. The most easily recognized beneficiaries of this pact will be the consumers of both countries. With enhanced competition, lower prices can be expected as well as greater consumer choice. As for industry, eliminating the obstacles to doing business and wiping out tariffs is going to be a great boon to manufacturing on both sides of the border. Markets will open that have been restricted, sources of raw material and parts that are now made more expensive by tariffs will be available at a lower cost. In short, this treaty is going to be overwhelmingly positive for both Canada and the United States. This, however, does not mean that there will be no opposition. Whenever there is change, even for the better, there are segments of society that resistsmall groups that have a special interest in keeping things the way they areeven at the expense of keeping everybody else from moving forward. Benjamin Franklin, our much venerated Founding Father, saw this, even in his day. Talking about trade he noted: "The more free and unrestrained it is, the more it flourishes; and the happier are all the nations concerned in it. Most of the restraints put upon it," he pointed out, "seem to have been the projects of particulars for their private interest, under pretense of public good." Well, in approaching the U.S.-Canadian free trade agreement, I would hope that the national interest will overcome the pressure of the private interest, on both sides of the border. I would hope that our peoples, of Canada and the United States and their elected representatives, are able to keep their eyes on the long-term growth and opportunity that will be forthcoming with this agreement rather than short-run dislocation that comes with any change. In Canada there are those who fear that their national identity might be damaged by a closer association with such a large country as the United States. Well, experience says otherwise. European countries have for decades cooperated closely on trade, yet the national character of each member nation still remains vital and distinctive. Canada, too, has a national character that will not only survive but flourish in an environment of free trade and expanding opportunity. I have no doubt that history will prove this agreement a boon to both our peoples. And through it, we will be an example to all the world of what free people can accomplish and demonstrate that the path to economic growth, job creation, and security is through negotiation and cooperation, not protectionism. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week something happened here in Washington that makes me proud, and I expect you'll feel the same way. It had to do with a report that our Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Otis Bowen, released on Wednesday. Now, most of the time government reports, with all their statistics and dry language, are not particularly interesting. But this one is different, because it has to do with something of deep concern to every American family: attitudes about drug use among America's young people. For each of the last 13 years, the Government has surveyed America's graduating high school seniors. Every year thousands of seniors in hundreds of schools across America have been asked about the drugs they've used and about what they think of drug use. For many years, what we found out proved pretty discouraging. In the seventies students told of ever more frequent drug use. Many of them said that some drug use, even drugs like cocaine, was okay, nothing to be afraid about. We had a drug epidemic, and too often our national leaders, in government and the media, didn't seem to care. Drug use, some said, was a victimless crime. No one got hurt. No one suffered. So, what was the big deal? Well, I've often thought that this message that drugs weren't all that bad was part of a larger message. The same people who winked at us about drugs also told us that America's future was bleak. Too often they said that the traditional values of family and community were old fashioned and out of date. It was as if they'd lost faith in the future and wanted the rest of us to lose it, too. But in communities around America, families, teachers, and young people themselves were finding out that those who said drug use was no big deal, whether they knew it or not, were telling a big lieand a dangerous one. Just how dangerous we all saw 2 years ago when a promising athlete, a young man whose future could have been written in headlines and in gold, died of a cocaine overdose. Len Bias never got to play professional basketball. But today his mother says that his death may have been a message from God to America's young people: Stay away from drugsall drugs-all the time. Well, as you know, others have carried that message, too. For 6 years now, Nancy has been traveling around the country spreading the word. On one trip out West, a student asked her how to turn away from drugs when they were offered. She replied: "Just say no." Since then, thousands of Just Say No clubs have been started in schools around the Nation. Students got the message, in many cases, long before adults. That brings me back to the report I was telling you about. Maybe you've heard the best news in it already. Last year for the first time since the surveying began, a substantially smaller proportion of high school seniorsone-third smalleracknowledged current use of cocaine than acknowledged it the year before. But that's not all. Students are no longer buying the old line that experimenting with cocaine and other illegal drugs is safe. For many years, only about a third of them said that using cocaine once or twice was dangerous. Last year almost half did, and nearly 90 percent said regular use was dangerous. And cocaine use is no longer the "in" thing. In fact, almost all the seniors surveyed97 percentdisapproved of regular cocaine use. And whether they thought one or two experiments dangerous or not, 87 percent disapproved of even trying cocaine. Use of marijuana and amphetamines is also dropping. More than 10 percent of the members of the class of 1978 said they used marijuana daily. In the class of 1987, it was only about 3 percent, still too many, but much better than it was. And more than 70 percentmore than ever have beforesay that regular marijuana use is harmful. So, the message is out, and America's young people have heard it: Drugs hurt, drugs kill, drug use is nothing to brag about, stay away from drugs. A few minutes ago, I said all this makes me proud. Well, the one thing I've found you can always count on is that when we Americans get a message and decide to do somethingwatch outthere's nothing that can stop us! I'm proud, as I know you are, of Nancy and of the many adults who've worked against this plague. But most of all, and I know also you join me in this, I'm proud of millions of young Americans whoone by one, or together with their friendsjust say no to drugs. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week was the start of the eighth year of my Presidency. And so, as we all do at the beginning of a new year, I'd like to take a few minutes to look ahead at some of the challenges before our nation this year. By the way, I'll be doing a lot more looking ahead on Monday night, when I'll go up to Capitol Hill to deliver the annual State of the Union Address. The State of the Union is the only statement that the Constitution itself requires the President to give. Almost all Presidents since Woodrow Wilson have delivered States of the Union in person, not just sent up written messages. This will be my seventh time. And let me tell you, the thrill of standing in that place where so many great Presidents have stood and of continuing a tradition that stretches back to George Washington and signifies our determination that, as Lincoln said, a government of, by, and for the people shall not perish from the Earthwell, that thrill never goes away. I'm looking forward to Monday night. I hope you'll tune in. As I'll tell Congress then, we in Washington have a lot of work ahead of usfor starters, preserving the economic growth of the past 5 years. Last week we had good news on this front. Our trade deficit dropped by 25 percent, but more importantly our exports, which have been climbing for more than a year, shot forward nearly 10 percent in 1 month and reached the highest levels in American history. Yes, American industry is in an export boom, and our economy is strongin fact, it's the envy of the world. But we all know that there are still unanswered questions in our economic future-the biggest: Are we going to keep working to reduce our budget deficit? The administration and Congress have made progress, in the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation and in this year's budget compromise, but we need to do more. On Monday I'll remind Congress of some good ideas that are past due for action, like the line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment. And I may have a surprise, too, a way, right now, for Congress to show it's serious about putting the Government's house in order. No issue that we will take up in the year ahead is more significant than the issue of peace with freedom, whether in this hemisphere or around the world. On Monday I will formally submit to the Senate for advice and consent to ratify the Intermediate Nuclear Forces treaty that General Secretary Gorbachev and I signed in December. It's a good treaty, a solid one with the most extensive verification provisions in history. It will make America and its allies more secure. Monday evening I will remind the Congress that this step toward enduring peace with freedom would never have come if the forces of democracy hadn't been strong, and I'll ask for expeditious Senate action. In Central America, the key to peace with freedom is also in the strength of the democratic forces. Some say if you're for aid to the freedom fighters in Nicaragua you're against the peace process. Phooey! Even the Sandinistas admit they're talking peace and democracy because of the freedom fighters. Yet to date, the Sandinistas haven't gone through with one concession to democratize that they can't easily reverse once the pressure of the freedom fighters is off. At stake here is whether Nicaragua becomes a Soviet base camp on the mainland of this hemisphere. Imagine if the Sandinista vision of a Communist Central America is realized and Mexico is threatened. The next vote on aid to the freedom fighters may be the most important this Congress casts. On Monday I'll ask Congress to vote yes. There are great challenges and opportunities in the year ahead. On Monday I will also talk about continuing to bring greater excellence to education. I'll mention ways to raise the quality of our schools. But I'll remind Congress that the most important thing is not to throw quantities of money at education but to tie funding to results and to have a commitment to quality and to State and local control of schools. So, that's a glimpse of the year ahead. And as I said, you'll hear more Monday night. That's the Nation's future, but let me turn for a minute to something more personal. You may have read about Tabatha Foster. She's 3 years old, was born with a severe birth defect, and recently, in an operating room in Pittsburgh, received five new organs. It will take time and money, as much as $1 million, to return Tabatha to full health. Her parents have exhausted their medical insurance, so a Tabatha Foster Fund has been set up to help them. I know you join me in praying that Tabatha will someday be able to lead a normal life. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you. And God bless Tabatha Foster.\par
My fellow Americans: One of the great stories of this decade, a story that goes too often unremarked, involves the movement toward democracy in this, our own Western Hemisphere. Less than 50 percent of the people of Latin America lived in democracies when our administration took office. Today that percentage is more than 90. In the words of President Sarney of Brazil: "Latin America's extraordinary effort to create a democratic order is the most stunning and moving political fact of recent years." Yet in the face of this broad and sweeping movement toward human freedom, one country has gone in the opposite direction, away from freedom and toward oppression. That country is Nicaragua. Since the Communist Sandinista regime of Nicaragua took power in 1979, its political opposition has been subjected to constant harassment. Freedom of the press was replaced by state censorship. Communist control of the economy has produced hyperinflation and a standard of living that is now nothing short of desperate. Perhaps the most telling fact of all is this: Some 250,000 Nicaraguans, over 10 percent of the entire population, have fled the country. It would be one thing if Nicaragua, bad as it is, were self-contained. Yet the actual case is much worse. For the Communist regime has placed Nicaragua within the Soviet orbit, embarked upon a massive military buildup, and already begun to send arms and guerrillas into neighboring countries. First, El Salvador, then Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Ricathe Communist Sandinistas have sought to extend violence throughout all of Central America. It could be only a matter of time before serious unrest and instability reached Mexico. Were that to happen, the decade of the nineties could open with hundreds of thousands of refugees streaming toward our own southern borders. Yet people in Central America have themselves moved to prevent this threat from becoming a reality. First among these are the Nicaraguan freedom fighters. These brave men and women have given up ordinary life to endure the hardship of living in the countrysidevirtually always on the moveto fight for freedom in their own country. There was a time when the freedom fighters, with few supplies, little medical support, and dwindling ammunition, were forced to retreat. But in recent months, in large measure because we in the United States have stood with them, the freedom fighters have begun to win major victories, placing intense pressure upon the Communist Sandinista regime to reform. Outside Communist Nicaragua, the democratic leaders of neighboring Central American countries have worked together to develop a peace plan for the region. Among its provisions, the peace plan calls for all the countries of Central America, including Nicaragua, to respect civil liberties, including freedom of the press and freedom to hold elections. The Communist regime in Nicaragua-which, as I've said, is under intense pressure from the freedom fightershas agreed to participate in the regional peace process. So far, the measures the Communists have taken have been extremely limitedthe release of a small number of political prisoners, for example, and the lifting of censorship in a very few eases. Yet there is hope that, with the freedom fighters keeping up the pressure, the Communists will observe still further provisions of the peace plan, permitting Nicaragua at least to inch toward the conditions of genuine democracy. The United States has made every effort to promote a negotiated solution. Since 1981 we have met with the Sandinistas ourselvesbilaterally, multilaterally, and in other diplomatic settings. Four special United States envoys have traveled to the region on at least 40 occasions. Yet it remains vital for us to help the freedom fighters keep the Communist Sandinistas under pressure. Next week Congress will vote on my request for additional aid for the Nicaraguan resistance. Ninety percent of the $36 million package is for nonlethal support, such as food, clothing, medicine, and the means to deliver those items. Only $3.6 million is for ammunition, and its delivery would be suspended for at least a month to determine whether progress is being made toward a cease-fire. I'm hopeful that will occur, and the ammunition will not be required. However, if the Sandinistas fail to move forward on the path of peace and democracy, then I will certify to Congress that these supplies must be released. I will make that decision only after the most careful and thorough consultation with Congress and the four Central American democratic Presidents. Those brave freedom fighters cannot be left unarmed against Communist tyranny. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Monday I'll be journeying to North Carolina to participate in a symposium examining one of our country's most serious challenges: the use of illicit drugs. In North Carolina we'll be talking about drug use in the workplace, a problem that, it is estimated, costs our society nearly $100 billion in lost productivity each year and poses a grave threat to our public health and safety. And public safety is an issue. There was a train wreck in Maryland a little over a year ago, when the crew went through signals that told them to stop. Sixteen people were killed, including two young sisters. Those young victims will never know the joys of life, of marriage, of having their own families. Why did that tragedy occur? Well, the National Transportation Safety Board determined that the engineer ran the stop signals because he was impaired by marijuana. The time to act has long since passed. The tragedy and heartbreak brought to families throughout our country have already gone too far. Each of us can help by making a personal commitment to be absolutely intolerant of the use of illegal drugs. As Nancy says: "Either you take an active hostile position or you're giving tacit approval." The next step is to identify the usersnot to put them in jail but to do what we can to get them off drugs and to help them to live a drug free life. Drug testing not only permits us to identify users but it has been shown to be a deterrent, as well. In fact, a no-drug policy in the military, which includes screening and testing, has resulted in a two-thirds decline in the number of drug users in uniform. This same commitment could well save money and lives in the private sector. And we're determined that the Federal Government, the Nation's number one employer, lead the way in eliminating the use of illegal drugs in the workplace. But this challenge isn't the Government's alone: It belongs to all of us. Those using drugs are affecting our lives, hurting others, whether they want to admit it or not. When policemen, judges, mayors, and military officers are gunned down by drug traffickers in countries like Colombia, anyone using drugs in the United States is helping pull the trigger of a murderer's gun. And the death toll also includes those shop owners and police killed during drug-related incidents in our own country. No decent person could want to contribute to such vicious crime, yet everyone who uses illegal drugs, even occasionally, shares the blame. But it's never too late to quit, and it's never too late to take a stand. I've always believed that, once we've made up our minds, there's nothing we Americans can't accomplish. Making up our minds is the hard part. Just this week we saw Congress divided on my request for continued assistance to those fighting for freedom in Nicaragua. Both sides claim their goal to be peace and democracy in Central America; the argument is over how to achieve it. To my disappointment, the House of Representatives voted to remove military pressure from the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua. The Senate agreed with me, that we cannot leave the democratic resistance in that country to the mercy of that Communist regime and expect the Sandinistas to democratize out of the goodness of their hearts. All of this has serious implications for our country's national security and, no less important, has grave implications for those brave souls who are fighting for democracy in Nicaraguapeople who trusted us. Their fate, the fate of democracy, and our own security interests depend on the next steps we take. I understand that some in Congress have already begun to develop an alternative assistance package. I await the details. I will work with the members of both parties to see to it that the fact that we disagree does not mean that America cannot act. What I will not accept, however, is an assistance package that is little more than a disguise for surrender and abandonment. The Sandinistas made commitments to democracy and pluralism as long ago as 1979. They were not kept. Americans are united in our determination that these latest promises be kept in a timely way. We must act to ensure that freedom is not smothered in that country. We live in perilous times, my fellow Americans, but also times of great hope and opportunity. The future is up to us. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I am meeting with Mexican President De la Madrid in Mazatlan, Mexico, so I've prerecorded this radio talk. Over these last 7 years, maintaining a constructive and friendly relationship with our neighbors to the south has been one of the highest priorities of our administration. As we review what has transpired, there is every reason to be pleased. The leaders of our two nations are aware that good relations and cooperation between us are invaluable to both our peoples. And that's why the meetings between our top leadership have been frequent and our talks at those meetings comprehensive. My meeting today with President De la Madrid will cover a number of issuesfrom economic concerns, to our mutual commitment to fight drug traffickers, to the security challenges facing the hemisphere. Mexico is our fourth largest trading partner and we, correspondingly, are Mexico's largest trading partner. Our commercial ties are strong and of great benefit to people on both sides of the border. We've worked hard to make it that way. Last November we signed a new framework understanding that underscored our special trade and investment relationship. During our meetings in Mazatlan, President De la Madrid and I will reaffirm our commitment to take advantage of every opportunity to strengthen the commercial ties between our peoples. One thing that cannot be overemphasized is that a healthy and expanding Mexican economy is in the interest of the United States. We want Mexico to grow and prosper. And that's why we've done our best and will continue to do our best to help find solutions to the vexing problems of Mexico's international debt. Innovative, market-based methods of managing this burden are being explored, such as Mexico's offer to exchange debt for long-term bonds. At the same time, we've been working with our Mexican counterparts on such things as a new textile accord, a telecommunications agreementwhich will be signed in Mazatlan todayand a new civil aviation agreement, which is in the final stages of negotiations. I hope that one day all of this will be seen as the initial steps leading toward an historic freeing of commerce and trade throughout the continent. We're just now beginning to tap the unmeasurable potential between Mexico and the United States. This can certainly be seen in the Immigration Reform and Control Act, passed by Congress in 1986. This law offers protections for more than a million undocumented immigrants living in the United States, many of whom are from Mexico. It provides a means for them to find legal employment in our country and to participate openly and freely in our society. Population movement and employment are subjects being examined closely by joint U.S. and Mexican commissions. A study of the issues and frank dialog between us is essential, and I am gratified by the responsible long-term approach the Mexican Government is taking in this sensitive area. We have found that there are honest and concerned officials on both sides of the border who are dedicated to the same ideals. Nowhere is that more clear than in the battle against drug traffickers. American and Mexican policemen and law enforcement officials have lost their lives in this fight. We've been allies with brave individuals, men and women of integrity who are putting their lives on the line against this evil and the corruption and bloodshed that follows in its trail. I might add that each and every one of us can make a contribution to winning this war against drugs. First, by refusing to use illegal drugs ourselves and, second, by helping others to get off drugsand the traffickers would go out of business if people quit buying illegal drugs. That's the real solution, and it's up to each and every one of us to be a part of the solution. Finally, my talks with President De la Madrid will also cover the security threat to this hemisphere. Since 1980 we've witnessed an impressive expansion of democracy throughout the Americas. However, this progress cannot be taken for granted. The establishment of totalitarian regimes, supported by Cuba and the Soviet Union, is a threat to stability and freedom. Nowhere is that threat more acute than in Central America. I would hope that the United States and Mexico will find common interest in opposing any such totalitarian threat. The peoples and Governments of United States and Mexico are and ought to be friends. Our national interests dictate it; our peoples demand it. It is in this spirit that I meet today with President De la Madrid. I will pass on to the people of Mexico your very best wishes. Until next week, thanks for listening and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week I transmitted to Congress our proposed budget for 1989. This budget fulfills the second-year obligations of a bipartisan agreement I hammered out last November with the leaders of Congress. We then, after arduous negotiations, agreed on a plan to reduce Federal deficit spending by over $75 billion in 2 years. If Congress upholds its commitments and stands firm against pressures for increased spendingpressures that reached a peak during election years-solid results will be forthcoming. And progress already has been made. If our proposed budget is enacted, deficit spending will have dropped from $221 billion in fiscal year 1986 to $130 billion in fiscal year 1989. As a proportion of gross national product, it will have been cut by more than half since 1983. The legislative and executive branches, by living up to our commitments of last November, are demonstrating the kind of responsible leadership expected by the electorate. The budget we've transmitted is true to that spirit. It reduces the level of deficit spending while at the same time holds the line against any general tax increase. It remains firm in our commitments to essential domestic programs. It also includes funding for the minimum defense program needed to keep our country safe and necessary to honor our commitments to our friends and allies. Anything less would not only jeopardize our national security but also dim prospects for further negotiated agreements with our adversaries. We've proposed a trim budget that keeps the lid on spending and yet still recognizes that some increases are justified. For example, we're actually calling for Congress to spend substantially more on education, combating AIDS, the war against drugs, and improving air safety, while keeping discretionary domestic spending within predetermined limits. The long-term solution to the plague of deficit spending, however, is not prudence this year or next. What's needed is reform that will bring discipline and accountability to the budget process. Exemplifying the shortcomings, last year the Federal budget was slapped together into a single behemoth bill and delivered to me hours before the Federal Government was due to run out of money. I was faced with the decision to either sign, without time for careful consideration, or see the Federal Government shut down. I pledged during the State of the Union, after plopping down 43 pounds of paper sent to me by Congress, that I would never sign another catchall continuing resolution. I'm pleased that at least 34 Senators and a good number of Congressmen, including many in the leadership, have indicated that they, too, do not want a repeat of last year's budget mayhem. Make no mistake, we have the opportunity to put our fiscal house in order and to reform the budget process. We've proven time and again that, by working together, partisanship can be put aside and progress can be made when the national interest is at stake. It took cooperation from both sides of the aisle, for example, to put in place an economic recovery program that has given this country the longest peacetime expansion in history. Inflation and interest rates have been kept down. Family income is up. And we've created over 15 million new jobs since the recovery began. Being mindful of the suffering that comes with unemployment, that last figure is a matter of particular pride for me. And as our economy has grown, unemployment has dropped to its lowest level since 1979. But that statement doesn't come near to describing the success we've enjoyed. Today more people have jobs and a higher percentage of our work force is employed than ever before. Since the recovery began, we've created more new jobs than in all of Western Europe and Japan combined. And even the meaning of unemployment figures is sometimes not fully understood. Our 7 million unemployed citizens are often thought of as people who have lost their jobs, as they're sometimes described in the media. In fact, less than half of the unemployed are job-losers. Fifty-five percent are new entrants, mainly young people looking for their first jobs; reentrants, individuals who left the work force, perhaps to raise a family, and are now seeking to get back in; or job-leavers, who voluntarily left their jobs to change locations or occupations. We, of course, need to remain concerned about each and every citizen who is seeking work and should not be satisfied until everyone who wants a joba good jobhas one. One person enduring the pressures and frustrations of unemployment is too many. That is why responsible Federal spending and taxing policiespolicies that foster growth and expand opportunity for all our citizensare so important. That is what the budget that I have just sent to Congress is all about. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This Monday Nancy and I will be attending a very special meeting in Washington. It's a gathering of concerned citizens from every walk of life who are working with us to develop a national strategy to fight drug abuse in America. This is part of the White House Conference for a Drug Free America, which was established last year by Executive Order 12595. A decade ago, drug abuse was ignored and, in some circles, was even glamorized. It was fashionable. Comedians joked about drugs, trivializing the problem. Well, there was legitimate reason for concern. Fathers and mothers saw their children wasting their lives. Husbands and wives felt helpless as a loved one destroyed a marriage. And as is so often the case, the children suffered most. I can't help but be proud that my wife, Nancy, took on the challenge of mobilizing our people against this evil. She came up with the formula that will make all the difference: Just say no. It's as simple as that. It's going to require all of us working together, however, to help those we love and care for to just say no and live right. We've already made progress. First and foremost, that complacent attitude has been replaced with vigorous and active involvement. Not only is the use of illegal drugs no longer accepted but is, in many circles, no longer tolerated. The old line about drug use being a victimless crime is being replaced with an understanding that the money spent on drugs, even by casual users, ends up financing murderers in South America as well as on our own streets. On Monday, the members of the White House Conference will be joined by some 2,000 other activists who are dedicated to a drug free America. Whatever recommendations they ultimately make, it is clear there are no easy answers. We must continue to seek every opportunity to stop the sale and use of illegal drugs. Nancy, I know, has dedicated her life to this not just as First Lady but as parent and good citizen. Our commitment will not end when we leave Washington at the end of my term. Nancy and I are dedicated to working with you in the years ahead to secure the gains we've made and to keep our country moving toward the goal of a drug free America. This is truly a national crusade. Government will do its part. Drug interdiction and well-equipped law enforcers are necessary. Each one of us has a role to play. The strategy that is emerging will depend on the widest range of citizen involvement. And I know I can count on you, because you feel as strongly about this as Nancy and I do. We want everyone to have the opportunity for a productive, meaningful life. That also requires our country to be secure, which is why we've been so concerned about events in Central America. Democracy has been progressing in that region, but one area where totalitarianism has a foothold could well undo all that's been accomplished. Nicaragua, with its Communist regime, represses its own people and threatens its neighbors. Well, if there's any lesson we've learned, it is that freedom and peace go hand in hand, so it is imperative we see democratic progress in Nicaragua. And in the past several months, under pressure from the democratic resistance, there have been some limited reforms there. On February 3d, to my disappointment, however, the majority in the House of Representatives voted to remove pressure for further democratic reform. The Senate, on the other hand, agreed with me that we cannot leave those fighting for freedom in Nicaragua at the mercy of the Communist regime and expect the process toward democracy to move ahead. And already we can see warning signs. In just 2 short weeks, the Sandinistas threatened the only free press in the country and rejected a cease-fire proposal which incorporated the essential elements laid out and agreed to last August. And in the first 2 months of 1988, Soviet military assistance to Nicaragua has almost doubled, compared to the same period in 1987. These are serious matters, and it's not time for wishful thinking. We must face reality in Central America, or we will face the consequences. We must have a policy, everywhere in the world, based on realism and strength. Next week, I'll be in Brussels meeting with our NATO allies to assure them America is ready and willing to stand with them to keep the peace with freedom that we have gained together through the alliance these past 40 years. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As many of you know, I recently returned from Brussels, Belgium, where I met with the leaders of the North Atlantic alliance. I'm glad to say that the Western alliance remains a strong and unified guardian of the free world, ready to meet the many challenges before us. In all of my meetings with allied leaders there was a unity of purpose and resolve that I found heartening and uplifting. That strength and unity have never been more sorely tested or better proven than in the events leading up to, and making possible, the recent signing of our historic treaty with the Soviet Union to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear weapons. Let me, if I may, review those events, because they provide a lesson that was much on my mind this week in Brussels, a valuable lesson about the only effective way to deal with the Soviet Union: from a position of strength. INF refers to intermediate-range nuclear forces. They only became an issue in the seventies and early eighties when the Soviets began targeting their new SS-20 missiles against every major city in Western Europe and our friends in Asia, as well. The free nations had no comparable weapon to counter this new threat. So, NATO agreed on what we called a dual-track policy. We would negotiate with the Soviets to get them to remove their missiles or to reduce them to the lowest possible equal level, and we would also deploy our own forces to counter their new threat. Well, the Soviets tried every play in the book to keep NATO from deploying these weapons. They stalled; they threatened. Finally, they walked out of the negotiations in Geneva when we did begin deploying. The political pressure brought to bear on Western Europe was immense. Many said our allies couldn't take it and they'd cave in. Demonstrations erupted in many of the capital cities in Europe, and the demonstrators' line was very similar to the Soviets No NATO deployments. In the United States, the so-called nuclear freeze movement gained strength. Well, if those demonstrators had gotten their way, there would be no INF treaty. There would be no agreement with the Soviet Union to reduce, for the first time in history, nuclear armaments. The Soviet SS-20's would still be in place, threatening the populations of Western Europe and Asia. The lesson learned: One must always negotiate with the Soviets from a position of strength. At this NATO meeting, we talked with our allies about ways to apply this lesson. After the removal of the Soviet intermediate-range missile threat, our highest priorities are: first, to negotiate a 50-percent reduction in strategic arms; second, to address the fact that the Warsaw Pact conventional forces, arrayed offensively along the Iron Curtain, far outnumber NATO's; and third, to address the problems created by the continued Soviet maintenance of the world's largest chemical weapons arsenal. That's why continued modernization of NATO forces, nuclear and conventional, is essential. Most of you have heard of SDI-our Strategic Defense Initiative that may one day make ballistic missiles obsolete. At the same time, we must continue to pursue NATO's conventional defense initiative to develop high-tech conventional weapons that may be an important part of the answer to the Soviets' aggressive strategy on the European continent. These issues were on our agenda in Brussels. We resolved there to press for large, asymmetrical reductions to Warsaw Pact conventional forces, for example, tanks and artillery. General Secretary Gorbachev talks at home about perestroikathat's Russian for restructuring. Well, it's time for some restructuring in the Warsaw Pact. It's time for the abandonment of the Soviet offensive strategy on the continent. We must never forget that arms reduction is not enough. Armaments are only the symptom, not the cause, of a much deeper division between free societies and the unfree. That division is at its heart a moral division. Perhaps it is best symbolized by the Berlin Wall and the horrible barrier that cuts down the center of Europe, dividing nations, peoples, families. The question must be asked: When can we ever hope to achieve a real and lasting peace with a regime that is so fearful of its own people that it must imprison them behind barbed wire? That's why, when I visited the Berlin Wall last year, I issued a challenge to Mr. Gorbachev: If you really want glasnost, if you really want openness, tear down that wall! So, let me conclude by saying, I found this week in Brussels what the Atlantic alliance has demonstrated now for 40 years: that a peace built on strength can and will endure. And I am convinced, after our meeting, that the alliance of free nations has never been stronger. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I'd like to talk to you today about our nation's trade policy. I can't think of a recent economic issue that has generated more heat and less light, yet has more importance to our long-term national interest, than trade. Throughout the 7 years I've been in office, professional doomsayers have latched onto one issue after another as evidence of an American decline. They can't seem to acknowledge the obvious good news that surrounds usthe low inflation, the over 15 million new jobs since November 1982, and the longest peacetime economic expansion of the century. Trade is only the most recent subject of lamentation by our critics. For them, our trade deficit is an excuse for getting the Government more involved in private business decisions. They say that Americans can't compete with foreign workers, so we should slow imports by erecting protectionist trade barriers. As usual, the doom merchants are wrong. The United States economy remains the most dynamic and exciting one on the globe. Our entrepreneurs, our can-do spirit, and our economic freedom are the envy of the world. The pessimism used to justify protectionism is totally unfounded. Let's clear up a few myths. First, the trade situation is improving far more quickly than people realize. Economists may disagree on the impact of the trade imbalance, but there is no disagreement that there has been a remarkable turnaround in the real trade deficit. Since the third quarter of 1986, the merchandise trade deficit in real terms has declined 18 percent. And over the past 15 months, the volume of exports has grown over 4 times as fast as the volume of imports. Clearly, we are in an export boom. American industries, particularly manufacturers, are setting records. Unfortunately, there's a threat to all this good news. I'm talking about the trade bill pending in Congress. Adopting protectionist measures and starting trade wars now would be like closing the barn door just as the horse is trying to get back in. The best way to keep our exports growing is to keep international trade expanding. And that brings me to another myth: that Congress can pass a law that will reduce the trade deficit without destroying our prosperity. Legislation can reduce a trade deficit only if it reduces economic activity. If people are not working, they're not trading. We had a trade surplus and 25-percent unemployment in the Great Depression. A protectionist trade bill is a serious threat to our export boom. It's a serious threat to the millions of American jobs that depend upon international trade. It is filled with scores of provisions that are protectionist and defeatist. My veto pen is ready if the final bill remains antitrade, anticonsumer, antijobs, and antigrowth. However, the administration is willing to work diligently with Congress to produce a bill that would increase our international competitiveness and complement our efforts to promote trade, exports, jobs, and productivity, not stymie them. All those working on the bill should take a deep breath, take another look at the trade outlook, and work together in a constructive spirit. It is still possible to write a bill that I can sign. Indeed, I'm encouraged by reports on the status of the trade bill negotiations. The conference committee working on the final draft of the bill has already eliminated a number of troublesome provisions, including illegal quotas, budget-busting giveaways, and protectionist measures. Many objectionable provisions remain, including proposed procedural changes in the law, but I'm hopeful that in the next phase these will be jettisoned. Only wholesale elimination of many of the existing items will produce a bill I can sign. Regardless of whether I sign trade legislation this year, we will continue our free and fair approach to trade policy. We will challenge unfair trade practices of other countries in order to achieve a level playing field for American industries. We will negotiate to knock down trade barriers on a bilateral or multilateral basis. In that regard, we will seek early enactment of the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement and push for concrete progress in the upcoming Uruguay round of trade negotiations. Finally, we will continue to coordinate economic policies with our major trading partners, thereby helping to maintain a favorable international climate for trade expansion. America's open market is its great strength, not its weakness. International trade has helped bring unparalleled prosperity to the American people. It would be a tragic mistake to surrender to doubt and defeatism just when our prospects are looking so bright. I have confidence in America, and I'm sure you do too. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There was a nice celebration of St. Patrick's Day up on Capitol Hill this week, but believe me, that wasn't the only reason Congress knew I had my Irish up. On two issues vital to our national security, I had some stern words for some of our lawmakers. The first has to do with the safety of our hemisphere. Back in the early 1980's, there were those who argued that the prospects for democracy in Central America were bleak and we would do little to prevent Marxist dictatorships there. But after the administration built a consensus, Congress finally passed our economic and military aid program, and today the countries of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala are democratic. Indeed, tomorrow, El Salvador-the nation some in Congress were gloomiest aboutwill host congressional and municipal elections, just one more sign of a successful democratic reform in that nation and region. However, in one Central American nation, Nicaragua, the cause of freedom is in grave peril. Up until the end of last month, the United States had been aiding the freedom fighters who've been trying to restore democracy by resisting the regime of Soviet-backed Sandinista Communists. However, just as the heroic efforts of the democratic resistance have forced the Communists to cut back on their aggression abroad and to make peace concessions, the Congress, in a close vote, decided to cut off aid to the freedom fighters. Since the Congress rejected our package of assistance for those fighting for freedom in Nicaragua, the Communist dictators have done exactly as we predicted. Instead of giving peace a chance, the aid cutoff is giving the Communist dictators a chancea chance they long hoped for, a chance to smash their opponents. They have hardened their negotiating position. They have fired the mediator, Cardinal Obando y Bravo. They have sent mobs of thugs against peaceful opposition groups. And now, instead of negotiating for a cease-fire, they have launched a major military assault on the weakened contras, invading democratic Honduras in the process. Now, from the beginning, our Central American policy has been designed to prevent another Cuba and to let the people of Nicaragua win back their freedom and their independence from the Soviet Union on their own, to do this without having to commit American military personnel. But now, because of Congress' aid cutoff last month, the Sandinistas have mounted their major cross-border incursion into Honduras. In response, and at the request of President Azcona, we have sent American military units to Honduras to conduct an emergency readiness exercise. Our purpose is to send a signal to the Governments and peoples of Central America about the seriousness with which we view the situation. The freedom fighters are in desperate need of support. If they are to remain a viable and effective force, they must have assistance now. There is not a moment to spare. If urgently needed help does not reach them soon, we face the prospect of a collapse of the democratic resistance, the attendant consolidation of a Marxist-Leninist regime in Nicaragua, and an increased threat to Nicaragua's democratic neighbors. Ultimately, we will face a national security crisis of the first order and an enormous human tragedy. Now, another vital security matter where the Congress has not been doing its job has involved our work on a strategic defense against ballistic missiles. This coming week marks the 5th anniversary of my call for just such a Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI. I am taking this occasion to note that the Soviets have been making extensive progress on their own SDI-like program in the last few years. Indeed, the Soviets may be preparing a nationwide defense, which would mean a breakout from the restrictions of the ABM treaty, which prohibits a massive deployment of such a system. However, at the very moment when the Soviets are so far along in their efforts, Congress has been cutting back ours. Every year Congress has cut the SDI budget. We are now 1 to 2 years behind schedule, and this despite the fact that the actual SDI program is progressing faster than we expected. But our scientists and engineers must have Congress' support, and they must have it soon. So, I can't think of two more vital national security issues than these: preventing the establishment of a Soviet beachhead in Central America and erecting a defense shield that will reduce the nuclear threat that has so overshadowed the postwar era. That's why we cannot permit some in Congress to take dangerous risks with America's national security. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week, as our thoughts begin to turn toward Easter, the cause of peace among nations is foremost in our minds, a cause that was also at the top of our work agenda here in Washington as I received Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze at the White House. My talks with him were cordial but, as you might expect, to the point. During Mr. Shevardnadze's stay, I announced May 29th through June 2d as the dates for my summit meeting in Moscow with the leader of the Soviet Union, General Secretary Gorbachev. And of course, this was good news. The last U.S.-Soviet summit in the U.S.S.R. was 14 years ago, so this meeting will give me and, in a sense, you, the American people, an opportunity to convey the message of peace and freedom to the Soviet people. But let me also say that while lengthy talks held between Secretary Shultz and Mr. Shevardnadze at the State Department were useful, they also made clear how difficult the issues are between the United States and the Soviet Union. Now, some progress was made here and there in various areas, but there's much more that needs to be done, given the importance of the topics discussed. Our agenda with the Soviet Union deals not only with arms reduction but also regional matters, human rights, and people-to-people exchanges. And as our discussions continue in each of these areas, I can assure you that the United States will sign only those agreements that are in our best interest. Let me also assure you, as negotiations continue on efforts to further reduce United States and Soviet strategic nuclear arms, that my administration will carefully review such proposals. Still, we've come a long way in our attempts to deal with the Soviets and to further the cause of peace and freedom around the world. The next summit will help. How much, we'll have to see. An important accomplishment of the first few summits, however, will be before the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee next week for approval; this is the INF treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces that Mr. Gorbachev and I signed when he was here for the Washington summit last December. It's an important vote, and I'm hopeful the Senate will, as it exercises its constitutional duty, speedily approve what amounts to the first real nuclear arms reductions ever achieved. Now, some of you've heard me say before that our progress with the Soviets is based on their awareness that we have no illusions about them and on our determination to deal from a position of strength. Now, that strength means, of course, keeping our defenses ready and second to none; but it also means a strong and vigorous economy and a place for America as the world leader in trade. That's why the other matter that is being considered in the Congress is of critical importance; that is the legislative conference on trade legislation. Last year, there was trade legislation coming through the Congress that would have meant serious risks to America's prosperity and indeed the world's. Fortunately, working with our administration, Congress has made some progress in producing a sounder bit of legislation. However, the legislation now before a conference committee still contains provisions that would restrict trade, deter investment in the United States, require mandatory retaliation that invites trade wars, and unnecessarily hamper my prerogatives as President. For example, one proposal still very much alive would create an obligation for the Government to help each and every company that can't keep up with legal, totally fair imports-in effect an entitlement program for businesses that can't compete. So, my hope is that the Congress will stay on course and that we will settle on a bill that avoids the great danger of choking off international trade and slowing down economic growth. I will not sign a bill that imperils our economy and threatens growth. And by the way, that economic growth keeps coming right along. Only this week we heard that the gross national product growth for last year was 4 percent. Now, this was higher than our own expectations-expectations that, by the way, were criticized as too rosy a scenario when we first made them. Well, the rosy scenario was even rosier than the one the critics were down on. It just shows what can happen when spending and taxes are held down and trade is encouraged. In fact, right now much of our economy is being driven by the growth in exports that bad trade legislation would discourage. So, you can see there's much on our minds this week in Washington. And before anyone looks prematurely forward to the arrival of the Easter Bunny, I hope Congress will stay focused on the important matters this week: the INF treaty and trade legislation. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Passover and Easter are festivals of hope. That's why this weekend is a good time for all of us to reflect on the enduring importance to mankind of hope and faith in the future. And nowhere do our hopes take more visible form than in the quest of science. Science has grown, and with it, the fascination it holds for all of us. But as the pursuit of science has become ever more nationally and even multinationally funded, it has also become more expensive. The problem here is that science, unlike a bridge or an interstate highway or a courthouse, has no local constituency. Today, when we're witnessing some of the most exciting discoveries in the history of science, things similar to the breakthroughs associated with Einstein, Galileo, and Newton, Federal funding for science is in jeopardy because of budget constraints. That's why it's my duty as President to draw its importance to your attention and that of Congress. America has long been the world's scientific leader. Over the years, we've secured far more patents than any other country in the world. And since World War II, we have won more Nobel prizes for science than the Europeans and Japanese combined. We also support more of what is called basic research; that is, research meant to teach us rather than to invent or develop new products. And for the past 40 years, the Government has been our leading sponsor of basic research. The remarkable thing is that although basic research does not begin with a particular practical goal, when you look at the results over the years, it ends up being one of the most practical things government does. For example, government-sponsored basic research produced the first laser. Today, less than three decades later, lasers are used in everything from microsurgery to the transmission of immense volumes of information and may contribute to our Strategic Defense Initiative that promises to make ballistic missiles obsolete. Well, I think that over the past 50 years the Government has helped build a number of particle accelerators so scientists could study high energy physics. Major industries, including television, communications, and computer industries, couldn't be where they are today without developments that began with this basic research. We cannot know where scientific research will lead. The consequences and spin-offs are unknown and unknowable until they happen. In research, as Albert Einstein once said, imagination is more important than knowledge. We can travel wherever the eye of our imagination can see. But one thing is certain: If we don't explore, others will, and we'll fall behind. This is why I've urged Congress to devote more money to research. After taking out inflation, today's government research expenditures are 58 percent greater than the expenditures of a decade ago. It is an indispensable investment in America's future. Let me tell you about just a few of the many projects we'll fund this year. This year we'll begin work on the great grandchild of those particle accelerators that have meant so much to our economic growth. It's called the superconducting supercollider. And it will harness the galloping technology of superconductivity, so we can explore subatomic particles in ways we've never been able to before. We'll also continue developing the space station. When it's in orbit, the space station will let us perform once impossible experiments in the weightless and sterile environment of outer space and understand our world and universe. And we're developing new technology to allow man eventually to journey beyond Earth's orbit. Astronaut Senator Jake Garn and others in Congress have given the space program the support it needs to once again reach for the stars. Meanwhile, back on Earth, we will be pursuing breakthroughs in biotechnology that promise to revolutionize medicine, agriculture, and protection of the environment. We're working on new ways to spread the seeds of Federal research. Working with universities across the country, we have established 14 engineering research centers devoted to basic research on emerging technologies. And we're planning 10 to 15 new science and technology centers to do the same thing in the fields of general science. All of these centers will work with industries so that what they discover can quickly lead to new and better and internationally competitive products. All of this and more is before Congress now. Some say that we can't afford it, that we're too strapped for cash. Well, leadership means making hard choices, even in an election year. We've put our research budget under a microscope and looked for quality and cost effectiveness. We've put together the best program for the taxpayers' dollars. After all, the American tradition of hope is one we can't afford to forget. Until next week, happy Easter and Passover. God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You've probably heard that some of our political opponents are very concerned about the state of our economy. And I have to tell you I don't blame them. If I were in their shoes, I'd be worried too. You see, April marks the 65th straight month of the longest peacetime expansion in U.S. history. In that time, we've created nearly 16 million jobs. They're better and higher paying, too, which is one reason why the real income of the average American has been rising steadily for the last 5 years. The percentage of Americans employed is the highest in history, and the unemployment rate continues to drop down to its lowest level since 1974. Since 1980 U.S. manufacturing has increased its productivity almost 3 times as fast as in the 7 previous years. Inflation remains low, while the gross national product growth this year and last has exceeded even our own optimistic expectations. Somehow our opponents have convinced themselves that this record growth, vibrant job creation, and more productive economy is bad news. And they say it's all the fault of Reaganomics. Well, I'd love to take the blame, or credit, as the case may be, but that just wouldn't be fair. All we did was get government out of your way. We cut taxes, inflation, and regulations; and we let the American people take back their own economy and run with it. In their effort to prove that this economic boom we're in is really a bust, our opponents have had to weave some pretty tall tales. One of those they tell about America is that we're threatened by foreign investment. Well, to paraphrase what Joe Friday used to say in "Dragnet": "Let's just look at the facts, ma'am." Yes, foreigners now hold about 12 percent of U.S. public debt, but that's down from 16 percent in 1978. Foreign resources also accounted for 10 percent of total credit-market funds last yearexactly the same as in the mid-1970's. But even so, foreign investment isn't something to be scared of. It brings us a host of benefits, including jobs and lower interest rates for all Americans, whether they be homebuyers , small businessmen, consumers, or farmers. Writer-economist Warren Brookes makes a very good point: "What difference does it make," he asks, "whether a Japanese company owns a factory in Detroit or in Marysville, Ohio? Could someone seriously think they might dismantle it brick by brick, and ship it back to Japan in the middle of the night?" I wonder if the workers in those plants think foreign investment is such a bad thing, or the nearly 3 million other Americans employed by foreign firms in the United States, whose payrolls add up to more than $70 billion and that pay about $8 billion in income taxes to the United States Treasury. The fact is we live in a global economy. We can be glad people in other countries choose to invest in the vibrant and growing U.S. economy rather than their own nations. I don't blame them. I think America's a pretty good investment, too. Right now, however, there's a trade bill working its way through Congress that could go a long way toward making America a bad investment for Americans and foreigners alike. At this moment, we've not seen the final bill. But from what we already know, we still have veryunderline veryserious reservations. We'll continue to work with the full conference and the congressional leadership to clear up these problems. But the bottom line is this: I will veto a bad trade bill before I will let a bad trade bill veto our economic expansion. Another important matter facing the Nation today is the INF treaty, which I signed with General Secretary Gorbachev at our Washington summit meeting last December. This treaty will, for the first time, eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet missiles. We called this the zero-option when I first proposed it in 1981. The treaty also requires the Soviet Union to make far greater reductions now in its missile systems to reach equality with us. This is an historic precedent, and we will apply it to other arms negotiations as well. Finally, the treaty has the most comprehensive verification regime in arms control history. This too is an important precedent for other negotiations, particularly those on strategic arms, where an even more elaborate verification regime will be required. In sum, this treaty represents what can be accomplished when we negotiate from a position of strength. Action on it is now up to the United States Senate, which must give its advice and consent to ratification. I hope it will be given expeditious consideration by the full Senate, and I urge all Senators to provide their advice and consent without reservation. It is a solid treaty, and it enhances the security of our country and our allies. Until next week then, thank you for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: The news has been bad lately, and that's good. And here's why. You've probably been hearing reports about Panamanian strong man General Noriega, who's been indicted for drug trafficking, and his struggle to stay in power despite pressure from his own people and our government to step down. You've also been hearing about the drug-related arrests of many street gang members in Los Angeles. And then, too, there's the news about congressional investigations of organized crime's involvement in the drug trade. Now, these news reports reflect an important change since the start of our administration in 1981. At the time, we faced a crisis of crime stemming from the illegal drug trade, especially in south Florida. At my urging, Vice President Bush headed up a task force that performed invaluable service by coordinating the activities of all law enforcement agencies in the area and for the first time brought to bear against the drug smugglers the full weight of Federal resources. This included high-tech military equipment and the resources of the intelligence community. Less than a year later, I went over to the Justice Department to announce a sweeping effort to break the back of organized crime in America. And a key part of this approach was the hiring of more than 1,000 new agents and prosecutors as part of 12 regional drug task forces based on the south Florida model. We also set up a President's Commission on Organized Crime that did landmark work in tracing the international connections of the domestic drug trade, pointing out the usefulness of drug testing, and exposing not only the old style Maria's involvement in the drug trade but also the danger of new, emerging crime gangs. In addition to all this, we got enacted sweeping legislative initiatives like the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 and the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986. This early attention to the criminal side of the drug problem, which has translated into a tripling of the overall antidrug budget, is now paying dividends. Cocaine seizures have increased by over 1,800 percent, arrests of major drug traffickers have increased by almost 200 percent, and well over $500 million in drug-related assets were seized in 1987 alone. And this kind of success at the Federal level would not be possible without an unprecedented degree of Federal, State, and local cooperation. Here in Washington this commitment is best evidenced by our Cabinet-level National Drug Policy Board, as well as the Vice President's National Narcotics Border Interdiction System, and the Department of Justice's Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces. But emphasizing the criminal side of the drug problem is only part of defeating the drug menace. Thanks to the efforts of Nancy's Just Say No campaign, Americans are understanding that the permanent way to end the drug menace is to deny the drug pusher his marketto stop demand. And that means education and prevention. It means understanding that drug use is not a victimless crimethat drugs kill and maim and finance the criminal underground. It means accepting the concept of user responsibility. It means realizing that those who use drugs are, in Nancy's words, making themselves accomplices to murder. Now, in addition to prevention and education and drug law enforcement, we have also been emphasizing the international side of the problem. When we came into office there were drug eradication programs underway in only two countries. Today that number is 23. In fact, this administration has signed an unprecedented number of mutual legal assistance treaties, extradition treaties, and eradication agreements. The unprecedented indictment of Panamanian leader Noriega for drug trafficking by a U.S. grand jury is a further indication of our nation's resolve to end the foreign supply of drugs. His nation is in a crisis of his making. But, as I said at the beginning, the fact that we're seeing more media coverage of the drug problem and the heat put on people like General Noriega and the street gangs in Los Angeles, or organized crime in general, is good news. Public awareness about the destructiveness of illegal drugs is at an all-time high. Americans are increasingly saying no to drugs. A recent survey of high school seniors showed a significant drop in cocaine and marijuana use. We have a long way to go before we have a drug free America, and I hope the media keeps emphasizing that point. But it's also true America has awakened to this problem. That's quite a change from just a decade ago. So, that's the good news, the very good news, about the bad news of drug abuse. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's a memorable bit of dialog between Claude Rains and Humphrey Bogart in the movie "Casablanca." Rains, playing the Vichy French police inspector, asked Bogart why he came to Casablanca; and Bogart says it was for "the waters." "But this is the desert," replies Rains, "there are no waters here." And Bogart, unflappable as ever, responds, "I was misinformed." Well, when it comes to the issue of trade, the American people have been misinformed. We seem to hear every night on the evening news that the trade deficit is looming over our economy, threatening at any moment to plunge us back into a second Great Depression. Well, I'm sorry to disappoint these doomcriers, but the economy is strong and getting stronger. What you don't hear so often on the news is that the trade deficit has turned around. Exports are at record levels, factories are expanding, and more Americans have jobs than ever before in our history. Whether it's cars, steel, or high technology, the label "Made in the U.S.A." is seen more and more around the world. This good news doesn't get reported too much because the rising price of imports makes it seem like we're importing more. The truth is when you account for price changes the trade deficit has decreased and is now 20 percent smaller than it was during the third quarter of 1986. The fearmongers had their heyday last October, when the stock market fell 508 points in 1 day of trading. Many blamed the merchandise trade deficit and predicted a dire future for the U.S. economy. Depression, recession, catastrophe, and calamity was all we heard. Well, I said at the time, the U.S. economy was in great shape. And in fact, in the 6 months since Black Monday, we've seen unemployment drop from 5.9 percent to 5.5, the lowest since 1974. We've had 6 more months of real growth in the longest peacetime expansion in U.S. history. And that growth has been impressive, a 4.8 percent during the last quarter of 1987some catastrophe. Not simply content with predicting disaster, some in Congress have put together legislation that would damage our ability to compete with our trading partners. Everyone talks about wanting a level playing field, but what Congress would be doing is putting American workers and industries on the field with one hand tied behind their backs. They call this a trade bill, but there's a lot in it that has nothing to do with trade. Yes, I want a trade bill, and we've been working with Congress in good faith to produce a bill that would open markets and improve America's competitiveness, but we must guard against enacting legislation that would reverse the gains of the past 5 years. The draft legislation does contain a number of important measures: It enhances our negotiating authority in the ongoing international trade talks, repeals the windfall profits tax, and creates a retraining program for workers who've been laid off. We strongly support these measures. But it also contains provisions that are unacceptable. I've made it very clear to Congress: I will veto this bill, and I am confident that my veto will be sustained. Then I'll work vigorously to secure responsible trade legislation and urge the congressional leadership to schedule prompt action on the new bill. As long as I'm President, we're going to keep traveling the road we're on, one of free and fair trade, record sustained growth, job creation, rising incomes, and technological leadership into the 21st century. Now, I'd like to turn for a moment to events this past week in the Persian Gulf. The actions that our forces took in the Gulf were a measured response to Iran's resumption of mine-laying and continued aggression against nonbelligerents. We have completed these self-defense actions and consider this incident closed. I am extremely proud of the courage and resourcefulness of our military personnel in the Persian Gulf. Their performance under very difficult circumstances has been superb. We're also very pleased with the role that the European allies are playing in a cooperative effort to counter the Iranian mining threat and to help protect freedom of navigation. Such cooperative efforts, supported by our Gulf Arab friends, offer the best means of deterring Iran and enhancing Gulf security. Working together, we can also put new life into the U.N. Security Council's efforts to end the increasingly bloody, inhumane Iran-Iraq war and remove the root cause of tensions in the Gulf. Our role in this war is neutral, and we do not seek to confront Iran. However, its leaders must understand that continued military and terrorist attacks against nonbelligerents and refusal to negotiate an end to the war will be very costly to Iran and its people. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week in Washington, trade was the talk of the town, and important talk it was. I've often mentioned trade issues in these broadcasts. And with your help during these last few years, we've been able to resist attempts to block free and fair trade. It hasn't been easy, because not a few politicians still think the way to reelection is to portray themselves as the great friend of the American worker by pushing protectionism. It's been up to us to point out that over the long run this approach halts growth and costs jobs, but as I say, with your help this message has gotten through. Believe me, this ability to resist protectionism-along with our commitment to lower taxes, less spending, and fewer regulations-has made a huge difference in all of our lives. I don't think any of us can easily forget that sense of desperation Americans felt a few years ago as they saw inflation driving the weekly grocery bill up and up, the value of their savings shrinking, jobs growing increasingly scarce, and economic growth going down to virtually nothing. Well, all that's been changed around. Just this week, Beryl Sprinkel, the head of my Council of Economic Advisers, went down to the White House briefing room to deliver this quarterly report on the state of the economy. Some experts, who had noted we're in the 65th month of our economic expansion, were saying a slowdown was inevitable, and others, noting last October's stock market plunge, made dire predictions about what the economy was going to do in the first quarter of this year. But the results were exactly what we had hoped for and, in fact, what we had predicted: The economy is moving along at a moderate rate of growth, and inflation is well under control. My fellow Americans, I remember only too well working in 1981 on my first televised speech describing "the worst economic mess since the Great Depression" and wondering even then how long it would take us to repair the damage. Well, thanks to the dynamics of less government and more free markets, the damage has been repairedand repaired much faster than anyone could have originally hoped. And that's why I'm certain you don't want me or Congress taking any risks with this progress. And that's also why I've made it clear that I'm going to be very severe with any trade legislation coming out of Congress that threatens America's prosperity. For the last year, we've all been working on a trade bill here, one that initially contained many objectionable provisions. Working with Members of Congress, we managed to remove almost all of these bad provisions. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to safeguarding prosperity, almost can never be good enough. The current legislation, despite all the hard work, still has provisions that threaten economic growth. These provisions are comprised mainly of demands for unnecessary, burdensome, and costly regulation of private industry. Provisions range from rules on plant closing notifications to restrictions on exports. Unfortunately, these provisions serve the special interests and not the Nation's interests. They would reduce the flexibility of our economy and render us less able to respond to the realities of the international marketplace. In short, they would make us less competitive, not more. This bill did pass the Congress this week, but the good news is the vote showed we have the strength to sustain a Presidential veto. And you can be sure that this bill is going to get a veto, but fast. And then all Congress has to do is drop the ruffles, frills, and flourishes put there for the special interests, and we can have a trade bill, and have it soon. As I have stated repeatedly, I want a trade bill and will work vigorously to secure one. I urge the congressional leadership to schedule prompt action on a bill immediately after my veto is sustained. It is time to set aside the special interests and advance America's interests by passing trade legislation that will assist, not impede, our dynamic economy. In the meantime, I'm delighted to tell you that there was some good news on trade this week. Prime Minister Mulroney of Canada was in town, and we discussed our two nations' pending agreement on an historic free trade zone between the United States and Canada. This is the kind of trade legislation we need-legislation that promotes growth and prosperity and keeps America away from the protectionism that once cost the world and our country so much. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Next week the full United States Senate is expected to begin floor debate on the treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces, known as the INF treaty. You'll recall that Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev and I signed this treaty at our summit meeting in Washington last December. The treaty represents a landmark accomplishment, an historic accomplishment, because, once implemented, it will bring about the elimination of an entire class of American and Soviet nuclear missiles. Before our nation can commit itself to a treaty, our Constitution provides that the Senate must give its advice and consent. And therefore, last January I formally submitted the INF treaty to the Senate for its consideration. The duty of the Senate in giving its advice and consent to treaties is vital to maintaining our separation of powers, and the role of the Senate is considering thein considering, I should say, the INF treatyit's essential. Senior officials of the administration have been working closely with the Senate. Officials from our State and Defense Departments, our intelligence community, and our arms control agency have provided many hours of testimony before three separate Senate committees, painstakingly responding to the detailed questions posed to them by the Senators on these committees. In addition, Senators have addressed to the administration numerous letters about the treaty and more than 1,200 written questions. We have provided full written responses. So, you'll see that we've worked very hard to meet any Senate concerns over the treaty. And as I've assured the Senate, we'll continue to do so. Now that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has approved the INF treaty, the entire Senate will be called on to discharge its constitutional responsibility to provide its advice and consent to the INF treaty. As this debate is about to begin in the historic Senate Chamber, permit me to take a moment to review with you the treaty's background. The INF treaty is the result of years of hard work by American officials, officials who, in representing you in our negotiations with the Soviet Union, held fast to the key security objectives that had been set out by the United States and our NATO allies. At one point the Soviet Union actually walked away from the table and stayed away from the talks for almost a year and a half. When in early 1985 the Soviets finally returned, we repeated our call for the elimination of this entire class of U.S. and Soviet missilesmy zero option proposal, first put forward all the way back in 1981. And in 1987 it was the Soviet Union that finally, after 2 1/2 more years of negotiating, came around to the American position. To sum up: In the INF negotiations, we held fast to what we wanted, and we got it. And this is what comes of negotiating from strength. It's the same successul formula-dealing from strengththat we're applying to our other negotiations with the Soviet Union as well. And I assure you: If we don't get what we want in these other areasin other words, if we do not get good treaties-there will be no treaties. It's my hope that, in recognition of the important role they play in this process, the 100 Members of the United States Senate will now proceed expeditiously in their debate on the INF treaty. It is, after all, a solid treaty, carefully negotiated; a treaty that stands on its own substantive merits; a treaty that will enhance the security of our country and that of our European and Asian allies now threatened by the various Soviet missiles that will be removed once the treaty is implemented. Senate approval of the treaty will enable us to get on with the job of eliminating these nuclear missiles. It will also allow us to put into action the elaborate verification regime that we achieved in the INF treaty. The most stringent in arms control history, it will enable us to verify effectively that the Soviets are indeed complying with all of the treaty's provisions. I know that you, the American people, strongly support this INF treaty. And on Capitol Hill, the House of Representatives has already given the treaty its endorsement by an overwhelming vote of 393 to 7. Now that the treaty is moving to floor debate in the Senate, let the debate be vigorous and full, and let it proceed without delay. For I'm confident that the final vote will indeed give advice and consent to this historic treaty, the historic step toward a safer peace. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Yesterday Congress decided to send me a trade bill that threatens to destroy jobs and that would begin to reverse the policies of the last 7 years. After 3 years of hard work by the Congress and the Executive, it is unfortunate that I have no choice but to send this back to Congress. While there are many positive aspects of this legislation, some of its provisions would move us a step further toward protectionism. Others would create new bureaucracies. But my main objection to the trade bill involves the mandatory requirements it sets down for business to give advance notice of layoffs or plant closings. Now, let me state very clearly that I believe businesses should give workers and communities just as much warning as they can when it looks as though layoffs or plant closings are going to become unavoidable. Advance notice gives the community and the workers themselves some time to begin adjusting. It's the humane thing to do. But when big government gets in the middle of something like thisdictating all its rules and regulationswell, the humane has a way of becoming inhumane. And what's intended to help everyday working men and women can actually end up hurting them. When you study the plant-closing provisions of the trade bill, you see that there are circumstances in which they would actually force a business to shut down. Once a struggling business issued a notice that it is likely to close or substantially reduce its work force, then creditors, suppliers, and customers would disappear, eliminating any chance of survival the business might have had. Under these conditions, temporary layoffs are sometimes necessary to manage costs and production. And while the bill does contain a so-called struggling company exemption, this exemption is too vague and unclear to be workable. Then, too, businesses will be very reluctant to add workers when it would put them over the arbitrary thresholds in this bill and subject them to yet another regime of Federal regulation. Make no mistake, these concerns are very real. One independent study shows that if these provisions had been in effect between 1982 and 1986 America today would have almost half a million fewer jobs. Yes, as I've said, our country should support advance notification of layoffs and plant closings. But this should be decided by bargaining between labor and management, not by some arbitrary rules laid down by politicians and enforced by Washington bureaucrats. And if I feel especially strong about this, I guess it's because I was a union president for years myself. There were times when the union, the Screen Actors Guild, took a hard line in negotiating with management. But, yes, there were also times when the motion picture industry was having its ups and downs, times when the union decided not to press quite so hard because we wanted to make sure the whole industry remained healthy and profitable. The point is, it was up to us, the unions and management, to run the motion picture industry together. We didn't need Washington in on this act. I guess what it all really comes down to is this: Just what kind of a government do we want? For these past 7 years, the administration has limited government, cutting taxes and regulations alike. The result: the longest peacetime expansion in American history, unemployment at the lowest level in almost 14 years, the creation of 16 million new jobs. And I might add, in the last 3 years, four times as many businesses have opened as have closed. We could go back to big government, and indeed many of those in favor of these plant-closing provisions argue that they're already in effect in many European countries. Well, to tell you the truth, I'm sort of proud of being an American, proud that since 1983 the United States has created six times as many jobs as has Western Europe. I don't want to leave the impression that the trade bill is completely bad. On the contrary, it contains a number of good and important measures, including new authority for American negotiators seeking to open markets abroad. It also included my proposal for helping workers affected by business failings by providing them with training, education, and job placement services-the truly humane approach. That's why I want a trade bill and why I so regret the addition of counterproductive measures that outweigh the positive features of this legislation. So, I urge Congress to schedule prompt action on a second trade bill immediately after it sustains my veto on this one. And now one final message. At noon tomorrow in Washington, hundreds will gather to pay tribute to police officers and other law enforcement officials who've died in the line of duty. So, wherever you are at noon, I hope you'll join me in bowing your head and in resolving to let our law enforcement officials know that we understand what our mothers and fathers taught us: The policeman is our friend. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You may have heard me say before that one of the things I like most about my job as President is visiting and talking with our young men and women in uniform. I've met them all over the worldat our Army outposts along the demilitarized zone in South Korea, on board the U.S.S. Constellation, in the hangars of Tempelhof Air Base in West Berlin, at Parris Island in South Carolina, and at the Coast Guard Academy a few days ago. And everywhere, I've seen that their commanders are right: They're the best we've ever had. I mention this because today is Armed Forces Day. Yes, this is the day for all of us to salute the soldiers, sailors, marines, and aviators who stand sentry on the frontiers of freedom all over the world. We say thanks to the patriots who, whether under the midnight star or the noonday Sun, are always alert so that America's peace and liberty will always be safe. Seven years ago, when we came to Washington, we found that our armed forces had been badly neglected. We found airplanes that could not fly and ships that could not sail for lack of trained people and spare parts. The military couldn't recruit enough good people or hold on to those they had. Today that's changed. The men and women in the services are well-trained and well-equipped. Almost all new recruits have a high school diploma. Never before in peacetime have we had a military that is as well-prepared. Just last month, the world saw what those who serve America on freedom's front-what they can do when the chips are down. I'm speaking of the story of the U.S.S. Samuel B. Roberts, a guided-missile frigate and part of our task force to help protect passage through international waters in the Persian Gulf. The Roberts was on patrol when it hit a submerged mine. The mine blew a huge hole in the ship's hull, sent a fireball shooting up the exhaust stack and 150 feet in the air, and almost tore the Roberts in half. Luckily, no one was killed. Some might have said that she was doomedhead for the life rafts. Well, that's not what the men of the Roberts said. They were determined to show what they could do. Acting fast, they held the Roberts together with bolts and wire, took care of their injured, escaped the mine field, and with the help of other Navy ships got safely to harbor. The captain [Comdr. Paul X. Rinn] summed up the spirit and determination of the entire crew when he closed his report saying of the Roberts: "We saved her, we'll fix her, and we'll fight again." And he signed off with their motto, "No higher honor." That's the spirit, skill, and dedication that has been rebuilt in all our armed services today. "No higher honor" could be the motto of every American in uniform. Yesterday, to show the Nation's gratitude again, I signed into law three bills expanding veterans' benefits in education, job training, health care, and other areas. The men and women on duty today should know that we'll still be behind them when their service is done. They also deserve to know that, like them, we're all doing our part to keep the peace. This week I was pleased that the Senate began floor debate on the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces, or INF, treaty. This treaty has had a thorough and useful examination in committee. Now the Senate can join with me and show both our allies and adversaries that it, too, wants to help build a brighter peace and better world. I hope the Senate will provide its consent to ratification of the INF treaty in time to bring it into force during my meetings with the General Secretary in Moscow. On this Armed Forces Day, let's also remember the important role the armed services have been playing in supporting law enforcement agencies in the fight against drugs. I asked the Secretary of Defense this week to find even more ways to use military resources against drug smugglers. I also called for a joint task forceexecutive branch and Congressto draw up a unified plan to fight drugs. I hope the leaders of Congress agree with me that the campaign against illegal drugs must not be hostage to headline seeking and partisan politics. This week we had another sign of America's strength, its economic strength, which undergirds all of our national security efforts. Trade figures came out for March. America exported in March more than ever before. Against this background of good news on trade, I am going to veto the ill-advised trade bill Congress has sent me. Once my veto is sustained, we'll work hard to get a responsible trade bill, one that will strengthen, not weaken, our economy. One last thought for Armed Forces Day and every day: If you see someone in uniform, would you go up, shake their hand, and thank them. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: As this pretaped broadcast reaches you, I'm in Helsinki, Finland, on my way to the Soviet Union, where I arrive on Sunday. When I meet in the coming days with Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev, it will be our fourth set of face-to-face talks in 3 years. Through our conversations, U.S.-Soviet relations have moved forward on the basis of frankness and realism. This relationship has not rested on any single issue, but has been built on a sturdy four-part agenda that includes human rights, regional conflicts, arms reduction, and bilateral exchanges. What has been achieved in this brief span of time offers great hope for a brighter future and a safer world. Through Western firmness and resolve, we concluded the historic INF treaty that provides for the global elimination of an entire class of U.S. and Soviet intermediaterange nuclear missiles. Soviet armed forces are now withdrawing from Afghanistan, an historic event that should lead finally to peace, self-determination, and healing for that long-suffering people and to an independent and undivided Afghan nation. It is also encouraging to hear General Secretary Gorbachev speak forthrightly about glasnost and perestroikaopenness and restructuring in the Soviet Union-words that to Western ears have a particularly welcome sound. And since he began his campaign, we can list developments that the free world heartily applauds. We've seen many well-known prisoners of conscience released from harsh labor camps or strict internal exile, courageous people like Josif Begun and Andrei Sakharov. Soviet authorities have permitted the publication of books like "Dr. Zhivago" and the distribution of movies such as "Repentance" that are critical of aspects of the Soviet past and present. Greater emigration has been allowed. Greater dissent is being tolerated. And recently, General Secretary Gorbachev has promised to grant a measure of religious freedom to the peoples of the Soviet Union. All this is new and good, but at the same time, there's another list that the West cannot ignore. While there are improvements, the basic structure of the system has not changed in the Soviet Union or in Eastern Europe, and there remain significant violations of human rights and freedoms. In Asia, Africa, and Central America, unpopular regimes use Soviet arms to oppress their own people and commit aggression against neighboring states. These regional conflicts extract a terrible toll of suffering and threaten to draw the United States and the Soviet Union into direct confrontation. These and related concerns will be at the top of my agenda in the days ahead. I shall say, among other things, that the Soviet Union should fully honor the Helsinki accords. In view of that document, signed in Helsinki in 1975, it is difficult to understand why almost 13 years later cases of divided families and blocked marriages should remain on the East-West agenda or why Soviet citizens who wish by right to emigrate should not be able to do so. And there are other issues: the recognition of those who wish to practice their religious beliefs and the release of all prisoners of conscience. In working for a safer world and a brighter future for all people, we know arms agreements alone will not make the world safer; we must also reduce the reasons for having arms. As I said to General Secretary Gorbachev when we first met in 1985, we do not mistrust each other because we're armed; we're armed because we mistrust each other. History has taught us that it is not weapons that cause war but the nature and conduct of the Governments that wield the weapons. So, when we encourage Soviet reforms, it is with the knowledge that democracy not only guarantees human rights but also helps prevent war and, in truth, is a form of arms control. So, really, our whole agenda has one purpose: to protect peace, freedom, and life itself. We would like to see positive changes in the U.S.S.R. institutionalized so that they'll become lasting features of Soviet society. And I would like to see more Soviet young people come here to experience and learn from our society. And that's why we're ready to work with the Soviets, to praise and criticize and work for greater contact and for change because that is the path to lasting peace, greater freedom, and a safer world. I'm grateful for your prayers and support as I embark on this journey. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It was just yesterday that I returned from my historic Moscow summit meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev. And it so happens that later this month I'll be visiting Canada for an economic summit with the leaders of the world's industrialized nations. I thought I'd take a few moments to tell you about both. First, my meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev in Moscowthe event that held perhaps the most immediate historic importance took place on Wednesday. It was then that General Secretary Gorbachev and I exchanged the instruments of ratification, bringing into effect the INF treaty. The effect of this treaty will be, very simply, to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range nuclear missiles. The significance of the INF treaty can hardly be overstated. For the first time ever, the levels of nuclear arms will actually be reduced rather than having caps placed on their growth. These missiles will not simply have been shuffled around on the map or placed in storage; they will have been destroyed. The exchange of these instruments of ratification alone would have made the Moscow summit a success, but the General Secretary and I made important progress in other areas as well. We moved ahead on START negotiations, negotiations that would lead to a dramatic reduction in both sides' arsenals of strategic nuclear arms. On bilateral issues, I'm especially pleased by our agreement to hold increased exchanges involving high school students. The number of students will at first be in the hundreds, but could grow into the thousands. Imagine ithundreds and then thousands of young people who have firsthand knowledge of each other's country and, yes, who have made friends. Turning to regional conflicts, Mr. Gorbachev and I discussed ways to reduce tension in areas around the globeSoutheast Asia, Africa, Central America, the Persian Gulf, and the Middle East. The withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, of course, represents an historic step in itself, one that the General Secretary and I agreed could serve as a model for settling other regional conflicts. A key part of my agenda for this Moscow summit, as for my previous meetings with the General Secretary, involved human rights. Recently, the Soviets have begun to show somewhat more respect for human rights. In the past year, for example, they have released some 300 political detainees from detention. It's my hope that what took place on my Moscow visit will lead to still greater individual freedom for the peoples of the Soviet Union. You see, in addition to my meetings with Mr. Gorbachev, I held other meetings-with monks at a monastery in Moscow; with nearly 100 dissidents and refuseniks, men and women who have worked for years for the freedom to speak, to worship, to assemble, and to travel; and at Moscow University with students, indeed, with the very students likely to become the Soviet Union's next generation of leaders. To the dissidents and refuseniks, I was able to say: The people of the United States and elsewhere support you. To the students, I suggested: There is another way to live and govern your country, a way of democracy and economic growth, a way in which creative human energies are released. If anyone had suggested, even as recently as 10 years ago, that an American President would one day be able to meet with Soviet dissidents inside Moscow itself or be able to speak to Soviet students in their own university about human freedom, well, I think you'll agree that a prediction like that would have been dismissed. But this past week, it happened. Seeds of freedom and greater trust were sown. And I just have to believe that, in ways we may not even be able to guess, those seeds will take root and grow. Accompanying these new political freedoms are a series of economic reforms that may begin to inject elements of free enterprise into the Soviet economy. In 2 weeks, I'll be attending my final economic summit in Toronto, where the Western countries will celebrate the success of free markets. It's my belief that liberty should be as important a concern in Toronto as it was in Moscow. Liberty in the economic sphere means low taxes. It means paring away needless regulations and reducing counterproductive government planning and interference. And it means keeping down barriers to international trade, here and around the world. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In one week, I go to Toronto for the annual economic summit with the leaders of the major industrial democracies. The United States along with our strong allies-Canada, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, and the European Community-form the industrial and technological backbone of the free world. This will be my eighth and final economic summit, and there'll be much to celebrate. Perhaps foremost will be the worldwide economic revolution that has unleashed ever greater levels of prosperity with lower tax rates. America led the way with major tax cuts and tax reform, and the other major industrial democracies have either cut their tax rates or are now in the process of doing so. I'm proud to say that we now lead the world with the lowest top personal tax rate of any of the major economic powers. We are also leading the way in creating jobs, providing employment for a greater percentage of our labor force than any of the other major industrial democracies. In fact, U.S. employment is at its highest level ever, and we've also brought down inflation and interest rates. It's not surprising that country after country has followed us on the path to greater economic freedom and begun to replace their statist policies with deregulation, privatization, and freer trade. One of the great lessons of the last 7 years is that when people in free economies are allowed to trade with one another around the world the result is greater prosperity for us all. Certainly, the United States has been one of the biggest gainers in the global economy. You've probably heard that we're now in the longest peacetime economic expansion in U.S. history. But this is also the first economic expansion in the postwar period in which the U.S. economy has grown faster than most of its major trading partners. So, yes, we're doing particularly well, but when free countries trade and invest with one another, there are no losers, only winners. Today we have a global economy in which the United States is at the very center. Of total foreign direct investment in the world, nearly 40 percent, by far the largest share, consists of Americans investing overseas. But it's not a one-way street. At the same time, the United States also receives more foreign investment from abroad than any other country. So, we truly are the investment capital of the world. The same thing is true regarding trade. We import more and export more than any other country on Earth. With that in mind, I want to reaffirm my commitment to enactment this year of responsible trade legislation. To help achieve positive trade legislation, I've directed my senior advisers to stand ready to assist the congressional leadership on a new trade billone that will strengthen America's international competitiveness and create even more new jobs for Americans. And make no mistake, the global economy is the basis of our prosperity and the foundation of our economic future. I can think of no surer way of derailing our economy than to try through protectionist measures to seal America off from trade and investment with the other countries of the world. I'm reminded of the story of the Sunday school teacher who asks her class, "Who wants to go to heaven?" Well, all of the children raise their hands except for one little boy in the back of the room. The teacher, astounded, says, "Charlie, don't you want to go to heaven? .... Sure I do," he says, "just not with this bunch." Well, fortunately, we and our trading partners are going to deal with economic matters together because that's the only way to move ahead. I'm glad to say we're moving away from protectionism and toward greater economic growth and job creation. One of the historic events of our time is the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement that I entered into this year with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. This agreement between the world's two greatest trading partners will eliminate tariff barriers between the United States and Canada by the year 1999 and establish the largest free trade area on Earth. The advantages to both our countries will be enormous in terms of jobs and prosperity. But as much as this pathbreaking agreement does for the people of the United States and Canada, this agreement, looked at in the sweep of history, is truly a gift to the world. It creates a model that can be imitated and expanded and ultimately made universal among free nations. And that's something we can truly be proud of. And finally, Tuesday is Flag Day, the anniversary of the first official American flag. Nancy and I hope that you'll join us and millions of other Americans Tuesday evening at 7 p.m. eastern daylight time in the annual "Pause for the Pledge." Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Seven years ago, as a newly elected President, I traveled to Canada for my first economic summit with the leaders of the other major industrial democracies. Tomorrow I will attend my eighth and final economic summit, and it's remarkable to think how much things have changed. When I took office, unemployment was climbing, inflation was soaring, Federal spending was out of control, and interest rates had topped 20 percent. The economic mess we faced was clear. And it was also clear that without a recovery in the United States there was little chance for the world economy to get back on its feet. The world stood, as one foreign leader put it, in the "trough of the recession," faced with the "twin evils of inflation and unemployment." It was, as another head of government said at the time, "one of the most difficult periods of the Western industrial countries." The question was what to do. And that was when we presented a bold new program of cutting tax rates and excessive regulation, opening world markets, and letting the private sector lead the way to economic recovery. Today we're in the longest peacetime economic expansion on record. We have created nearly 17 million jobs in the last 5 1/2 years. That's twice as many new jobs as the other six summit countries combined, and those countries have a working-age population that's over 60 percent larger than the United States. But our own prosperity is only part of our achievement. We have also led the world toward a remarkable consensus: that economic freedom, not state planning and intervention, holds the key to growth and development. Yes, the other industrial democracies have joined us on this path. But it goes further than that. From India to Argentina, from Africa to China and even in the Soviet Union, the shackles of state economic domination are beginning to loosen. So, in winning this battle of ideas, we're helping to enrich and liberate the working people and entrepreneurs of the entire world. And at the Toronto summit, we're going to work together to make sure that this great "venture to progress" continues. That means further opening the international marketplace and increasing the coordination of our policies. That means bringing the newly industrialized countries into the full and mature place in the world trading system that they have earned. And it also means working together, however, to put an end to one type of trade: illegal drug trafficking. So, these topics and others, such as the rebuilding of Afghanistan and the Philippines, international debt, and agricultural subsidiesthese will be on the Toronto agenda. But before I travel across our northern border to Canada, I'd like to talk for a minute about a situation south of our border, in Central America. This is a problem that's close to home and that demands our strong attention. Back on February 3d this year, the Congress, by just an 8-vote margin, took a dangerous gamble with our national security and the prospects for democracy in Central America. You see, on that day the House of Representatives voted down my request to continue effective support for the Nicaraguan freedom fighters. The opponents of aid argued that they were giving peace a chance by unilaterally disarming the freedom fighters. But today the Nicaraguan talks are at an impasse, the victim of the Sandinistas' bad faith and Congress' bad judgment. The leaders of the resistance who courageously went to Managua to seek concrete democratic freedoms were instead subjected to lies, abuse, harassment, and threats of physical harm by the Communist government. Costa Rican President Arias said that the democratization that was required of Nicaragua "has not happened," citing Sandinista "intransigence." The Sandinistas have proved repeatedly that they will not democratize without pressure. As they've shown at Contadora, Manzanillo, San Jose, Esquipulas, and Sapoa: Peace talks for them are just political theater, a way to weaken the democratic resistance while consolidating their militant Communist regime. I've warned that if we fail in Nicaragua we could one day face a Communist Central America spreading subversion northward and southward. As I said in 1984, this would pose "the threat that 100 million people from Panama to the open border of our South could come under the control of pro-Soviet regimes." That is why we must work for a free Nicaragua. Even the Washington Post, in an editorial last Sunday, urged one key faction of House Democrats to "stop chasing ghosts and playing political games." We can still secure peace and freedom in Central America, but time is growing short, and the stakes ever larger. If we fail to act in time, the American people will demand to know why. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This past week I traveled to Canada for my eighth economic summit with leaders of the industrialized democracies. The summit produced important results. We agreed on a plan to provide debt relief for some of the poorest countries of the world. We moved important agricultural reform negotiations forward. And we rededicated our nations to combating the modern day evils of airplane hijacking, terrorism, and illegal drugs. It's this last matter, the fight against illegal drugs, that I'd like to take a moment to discuss with you this afternoon. This past week's meeting in Canada wasn't the first time the drug problem had been discussed among my summit colleagues. At the 1985 summit in Bonn, we established an expert group to identify areas for enhancing effectiveness and cooperation in fighting the scourge of illegal drugs. The expert group presented its report at our 1986 summit in Tokyo, and the report proved useful in setting our countries on a path of cooperation in combating drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking. Now the summit leaders have supported an initiative for a special group, launched by Vice President Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Mulroney, that would extend and promote the work done by the Bonn summit. This group will propose methods to improve international cooperation in combating production, trafficking, and financing of the drug trade. I'm hopeful this group can identify measures for a major coordinated assault on drugs. But today the battle against drugs extends far beyond the seven industrialized democracies represented in Toronto. Just 1 year ago, 138 nations, members of the United Nations, met in Vienna to participate in the historic International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. This conference proved a resounding success in bringing together representatives from around the globe. Each of the participating governments declared its commitment to vigorous action against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking. Perhaps even more important, the 138 nations adopted a comprehensive outline of activities all nations can undertake to fight illegal drugs. These activities include the reduction of demand for illegal drugs, the suppression of illicit drug production and trafficking, and the treatment and rehabilitation of drug-dependent people. One suggestion coming out of the U.N. Conference was the recommendation for a commemorative day: an International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The U.N. General Assembly then set aside June 26th to serve as this day of observance. Around the world, nations will join the United Nations commemorating the international fight against drugs, and I'm pleased that the United States will be among them. Attorney General Meese, who headed our delegation to the conference in Vienna, will host a ceremony to draw attention to the international day and to reaffirm the commitment of the United States to a drug free America and, yes, a drug free world. Here at home this past week, the White House Conference for a Drug Free America released its report. This document included more than 100 recommendations for combating drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking. We'll be giving these recommendations careful consideration in the days ahead. And there's another important antidrug effort underway here at home. It was on May 18th that I called onto use my own words"both Houses of the Congress, both sides of the aisle, to join with my representatives in a special executive-legislative task force to advance America's unified response to the problem of illegal drug use." My goal is to combine the expertise of the executive and legislative branches to identify the next steps we should take to stop the illegal use, distribution, and production of drugs and to begin taking these steps on a bipartisan basis. I'm sure you'll agree the drug problem is a national problem that demands national solutions and is too important for us to permit partisan bickering. I was pleased that the House and Senate minority leaders, Bob Dole and Bob Michel, appointed their representatives to the task force, and I urge the Speaker of the House and the majority leader of the Senate to appoint their own representatives quickly so we can get to work. Next week my National Drug Policy Board will recommend specific proposals that would be important to any new drug legislation. Today illegal drug use is down in our high schools. Cocaine and heroin seizures are up. And perhaps most important, attitudes about illegal drugs have changed. But we're working to make our beloved land what we know it ought to be and can be: a truly drug free America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This Fourth of July weekend, we Americans will, as we do each year at this time, raise Old Glory a little higher, cheer fireworks, and remember the blessing we share as citizens of this great and free land. And as we celebrate our independence and pause to give thanks for our liberty, let us also remember that the freedoms we cherish are never more than a generation away from extinction. It's up to each of us to preserve, protect, and defend America's precious heritage. Some Americans have done just that on the battlefield; but all of us can do it each and every day. We can vote at election time. We can volunteer to help political campaigns for the candidates of our choice, as well as volunteer for work that's needed around our community. And we can simply raise our children well, do our jobs well, and live in God's light. One man who has contributed more than his share to our country left government service this week. For a year and a half, Howard Baker has been my Chief of Staff here at the White House. He's served with great distinction, helping me guide important legislation through Congress, as well as helping me at the summits with Mr. Gorbachev in Washington and Moscow. Serving with distinction is nothing new for Howard Baker. He did it for almost two decades in the United States Senate, the last 4 years as majority leader. I know I'll miss him around the White House. So, Howard, good luck to you and your lovely wife, Joy. In the months ahead I'll be helped by a new Chief of Staff, Kenneth Duberstein. It won't be a big change for Ken. He's moving from his old office, where he's worked as the number two man on my staff and as Howard's partner since early last year, to the one next door. And that's good, because we won't have time just to settle in. Yes, we have a lot of work to do and a big agenda that we got down to business on this week. On Friday, with Members of Congress looking on, I signed the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act into law. At the ceremony, I noted that almost a year and a half ago I had said we should remove a financial specter facing our older Americans: the fear of an illness requiring acute care so expensive that it can result in having to choose between bankruptcy and death. Shortly after that, our administration submitted a bill to Congress to help free the elderly from the fear of catastrophic illness. Now a version of that bill is law. As I said Friday, we still must face challenges if this law, as Congress finally enacted it, is to work; but we can all be grateful that a burden has been lifted from the shoulders and minds of the elderly all over America. By the way, as I signed the Catastrophic Coverage Act into law, I couldn't help thinking how much we Americans have done in the last few years. Today our economy is strong and growing. Our belief in peace through strength, which we kept despite many protests in Congress and elsewhere, is paying off. The first treaty ever to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles has been signed. And there is, all the way around, a new realism in our relations with the Soviet bloc. But despite these accomplishments, I believe our eyes should be on the future and the accomplishments we have still to achieve. For example, congressional approval of the free trade agreement that we negotiated with Canada will help the entire North American economy grow and create vast numbers of new jobs well into the next century. Throughout our history, whenever trade barriers have been lowered in North America, we've had a blooming of economic growth. We owe it to our children to cultivate for another time of flowering and approve this agreement. We also owe it to our children to put the illegal drug trade out of business. That's why when I visited Toronto recently for the economic summit of the major industrial nations, I was particularly pleased by one action the summit nations took. It's called the Bush initiative. For it, thank Vice President Bush and Canada's Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Not long ago, these two leaders decided that the best new place to hit the drug trade was in its most vulnerable spot: money laundering. Now that's what all the major industrial nations are going to do. Yes, our nation's agenda is full, whether it's keeping our defenses strong or cutting unnecessary spending; getting Congress to pass a welfare reform bill that requires work; and trade legislation that will open, not close, markets; or helping freedom fighters around the world. But that's what democracy is all abouta big agenda, America's agenda, for all of us to work on together, to build a bright tomorrow for our blessed land. Here at the White House, our sleeves are rolled up, and we're hard at work on our agenda for the future. So, happy Fourth of July! And until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I want to tell you about some new antidrug initiatives. But first, with the announcement by Ed Meesenow that his name has been clearedthat he'll be returning to private life this summer, I'd like to take a minute to recognize a public servant of dedication and integrity, who's been a close friend for over 20 years. As Counsellor at the White House and as Attorney General, Ed Meese worked for stricter sentencing to put dangerous criminals behind bars and also for greater resources for drug enforcement and to fight organized crime. And in a system usually focused on the criminal, he never forgot the victims of crime or their rights. As Attorney General, Ed Meese led our effort to appoint highly qualified Federal judges who would crack down on crime and also faithfully interpret the Constitution. He led our Justice Department as it aggressively defended civil rights. In fact, this administration has achieved more convictions for civil rights 'violations than any previous administration. In fighting terrorism, Attorney General Meese worked closely with our allies to detect, apprehend, and prosecute those who wage war on innocent members of free societies. And in our campaign against the menace of illegal drugs, Ed Meese has been a central figure, serving as Chairman of the National Drug Policy Board. Now let me turn to our antidrug efforts. I believe that drug testing is a key tool to help promote public safety and a drug-free work force. In fact, to set a good example, White House employees were informed yesterday that random drug testing would begin in 60 days. I hope the White House program will encourage increased testing programs in the private sector. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, I have just approved a new set of drug abuse policy recommendations. These proposals send a strong message to drug traffickers and illegal drug users that we have zero tolerance for those who sell or use illegal drugs. For example, we would require businesses and colleges that receive Federal funds to adopt effective antidrug programs. For pregnant women who use illegal drugs, there should be priority treatment to help them and their unborn children. We would give the military a greater role in coordination with our drug enforcement agencies. Criminals on probation or parole would be drug tested, and testing positive might send them right back to jarl. And yes, for those who commit drug-related murders or kill law officers, we favor a Federal death penalty. Since 1981, when Vice President George Bush and I took office, we have better than tripled total Federal spending for drug enforcement, prevention, and treatment. And we've requested a further 13-percent increase that will put nearly $4 billion into the Federal effort next year. And we're beginning to see results. Arrests are up. Seizures are up. And use in some categories is coming down. But by far the most important development is the change in attitude in America. You can feel it. People are angry about illegal drugs. We're a patient people, but we've lost our patience. And this is good news because more needs to be done, and as never before, the American people are doing itin their neighborhoods, through their churches, at their schools and workplaces. For example, today 28 percent of our largest corporations have drug testing programs. Communities are working with police to get rid of drug dealers. And in thousands of schools throughout America there are now Just Say No clubs. I have to tell you, that whole movement began when a young girl asked Nancy what to do if someone offered her drugs. And Nancy told her "Just say no." Well, I figure if young people across the country can come together against illegal drugs, then why shouldn't the grownups in Washington be able to do the same? In May I proposed that both Houses of Congress, both sides of the aisle, join together with our administration in a bipartisan executive-legislative task force to advance America's unified antidrug policy. I proposed this task force for a simple reason: If we're going to get the drugs out of our schools, we need to get the politics out of drugs. And fortunately, on the drug issue there is near-unanimous agreement. I can tell you that was not the case 7 years ago, but it is today. This is my final year in office, and I believe that partisan bickering or seeking political advantage can only delay our progress in working to achieve a drug free America. Yesterday I gave a set of policy proposals to my representatives to the executive-legislative task force. I hope that the Democratic leaders in Congress will now join in this united effort. The time for excuses and delays is long past. I hope that through this task force we all can come together and work in good faith for the good of this country. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Next week the Democrats will hold their national convention in Atlanta, and as they do so, you're going to be hearing a lot of rhetoric about the economy. Indeed, our economic future is likely to prove the central issue of the coming campaign. So, with the campaign season upon us, I thought I might take a few moments this afternoon to put this whole issue in proper perspective. When it comes to the economy, there are two big facts to keep in mind. Before we came to Washington, our economy was in a mess: inflation in double digits, men and women being thrown out of jobs, the prime interest rate soaring at the highest level since the Civil War. And the second big factwell, the second big fact is that when our administration had put its economic program in place, the economy stopped shrinking and started to grow, and it's been growing ever since. Permit me to share with you just a few figures, figures I truly hope the Democrats keep in mind as they meet in Atlanta. Today's economic expansion has become the longest peacetime expansion in our entire history. Unemployment has fallen to the lowest level in nearly a decade and a half. Among black teenagers, unemployment has fallen to the lowest level since record-breaking began back in 1972, showing that minorities are among those benefiting the most from economic growth. Since the expansion began 67 months ago, the American economy has created more than 17 million jobs, far more than the number created by the economies of Western Europe and Japan combined. Business investment in plant and equipment is up. Our trade balance is improving. And more Americans have jobs today than at any time in our history. What does all this mean? It means that getting the Government off your backs and out of your pockets has worked. You see, for years now there have been two basic approaches, two basic philosophies, regarding our economy. The liberal view is suspicious of free markets and private enterprise. It holds that it's the job of government to intervene in the economy, and to intervene constantlytaxing, regulatingspending more and more of your dollars. And, yes, it's this liberal view that nearly wrecked our economy the last time the Democrats were in charge. Our administration ushered in a new philosophy, one that trusted you, the people, and not big government. We cut tax rates, pared back regulations, limited the growth of government spending. And we did all this to get government out of the way so that individuals and enterprises had incentives to grow, to invest, to innovate, to create jobs. Professional economists would describe our philosophy as one that believes there's a bias for growth in the private sector. To put that same idea in plain language, we believe it's only natural for individual men and women to want to build a better life for themselves and their families and that it's up to the Government to get out of the way and let them do just that. By now, it's clear that our approach works, that trusting the people leads to prosperity. Economists have even begun to realize that the old boom-and-bust cycles of the past probably had more to do with the volatility of government policy than with underlying economic causes and that if we remain true to low-tax, high-growth policies, today's expansion, already at 67 months and still counting, can go on and on. This brings me back to the convention that's taking place in Atlanta next week. You see, today we face an historic opportunity. It's the chance to remove the fear of the boom-and-bust cycle once and for all, replacing it with consistent low-tax, limited government policiesin other words, to achieve a bipartisan, national consensus for economic growth. I firmly believe that there will be some right-minded Democrats at the convention next week, just as there are many rank and file Democratic voters across the country who agree. But sadly, the leaders in charge of the convention will want to take America back to the failed policies of the past. It's ironic, isn't it, that just as countries around the world are adopting the same progrowth policies our administration put in place, so many in the Democratic Party want to go in the opposite direction. So, as you watch the convention in Atlanta next week, I urge you to ask yourself this question: Is the Democratic Party and its nominee for President going to keep taxes low and government growth under control, or are they going to go back to the very policies that could wreck our economy yet again? Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week there was a certain meeting in Atlanta, and maybe, like me, you just couldn't help hearing a few things about it and shaking your head. Some people just don't seem to learn. The American people want to hear straight talk about where our leaders plan to take the country, not personal attacks. For all our history, we Americans have debated our differences vigorously. But like two of the earliest political adversaries in our history, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, while we've always fought hard for our differing opinions, we've honored each other for taking part in the democratic process. This week's convention speakers seemed to forget this American tradition. But beyond that, there was something amazing about what we heard. Our liberal opposition seems to think so much is bad in America. To hear them talk you would never have guessed that we're in the longest peacetime economic expansion on record, that America has created over 17 million jobs in the last 5 years, or that a greater proportion of Americans in the work force has jobs today than ever before in our history. You would never have guessed that, after dropping by 3 percent when their party was last in the White House, the real income of the typical American family has grown by more than 10 percent since the current expansion began. You would never have guessed that our cuts in tax rates and recent tax reform have done exactly what we said they would do. Americans with the most income pay more of our total income taxes than before; many Americans at the bottom of the scale no longer pay any income tax at all. And growth and opportunity have been born again in America. Most of all, you would never have guessed how much our expansion has meant to all Americans. For example, one respected economic writer noted that for black Americans, the year 1982 to 1986 represented, in his words, "On every frontjobs, income, even household wealththe best 5 years in black history." No, listening to the rhetoric, you'd never have guessed America's economy is the strongest in decades. To them, it's midnight in America. It's the same sad song they sang 4 years ago. They say they want to turn America around. When their party left the White House 8 years ago, inflation was at one of the highest levels in American history. Now it's under control. Do they want to turn that around? When they left office, America's industrial productivity was stalled. Our competitiveness was slipping, and technological research, key to our industrial future, appeared to be on hold. Today manufacturing productivity is rising stronglysome rate us as the most competitive nation for manufacturing costs in the industrial worldand we're again the world's leader in developing new technology. Do they want to turn that around? And when their party turned over the keys to the White House, the Soviet Union was going forward with the biggest arms buildup in history; we were cutting back. And the Soviets had invaded Afghanistan. Today we have the first treaty in world history to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. The Soviets have pulled troops out of Afghanistan. And American-Soviet relations are better than they've been for a good long while. Do they want to turn that around, too? They said America can do betterwith that I wholeheartedly agree. But the people also know that the last time our opponents were in charge America did a heck of a lot worse. What do our opponents really want to do? Well, again and again, we've heard from the press that our opposition just won't say. We've heard that they don't want to level with the country because when they've done that in the past the country hasn't liked what it's heard. So, this year they've learned one lesson: They're covering their tracks. You'll never hear that "L" wordliberalfrom them. They've put on political trench coats and dark glasses and slipped their platform into a plain brown wrapper. But while they're saying that government needs to do more of this or more of that, will they also pledge not to raise taxes? While they're talking about reducing the danger of nuclear weapons, will they also pledge to go forward full speed with our Strategic Defense Initiative, the one practical way of reducing the threat of those weapons once and for all? And while they're talking about the war on drugs, will they also support the death penalty for drug kingpins? The American people expect straight talk about real issues. That's what they deserve, and that's what they ought to get. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: What a moment of hope it was 1 year ago when Central American leaders concluded their meeting in Guatemala. The Sandinista Government of Nicaragua, a Communist regime fighting a civil war against 15,000 Nicaraguan freedom fighters opposed to their oppression, agreed to a series of sweeping democratic reforms. If carried out, those reforms would have ended the killing and brought peace to Nicaragua and Central America. It would also have meant that Nicaragua would at last join the family of free, democratic nations. At first, there were a few hopeful signs. To much media fanfare, the opposition newspaper in Nicaragua, La Prensa, was reopened. Independent radio stations were allowed to broadcast again. A few political prisoners were released, and political groups were allowed more latitude. Most important, Sandinistas finally agreed to the freedom fighters' request for direct negotiations for a peaceful, democratic settlement. Now the main reason the Sandinistas agreed to those steps a year ago was the steady progress of the freedom fighters, including important battlefield victories like the one at Los Minas. But tragically, at the very moment when continued strength and determination by the United States might have meant the continued success of the peace plan, the United States House of Representatives decided, and by only a very narrow margin, to refuse my request for further effective aid to the freedom fighters. This, of course, removed the principal prodthe military victories and popular success of the freedom fightersto Sandinista participation in the peace plan and sent an immediate signal of American weakness to the Communists. This failure to support the freedom fighters has had costly and sad consequences-just how costly and sad we've seen during the past few weeks. Communist Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega has been visiting Castro in Cuba and voicing solidarity with the tyrant who has brought so much sadness and misery to that country; while in Nicaragua, a renewed attack on political dissent is being led by the head of the secret police, Tomas Borge, a dedicated Communist and grim, hardened repressor of human rights whose office, according to our Commission on Organized Crime, has also been actively engaged in the international drug trade. Acting under the orders of the Communist leaders and Borge's supervision, Sandinista police and goon squads have brutally broken up a peaceful demonstration by 3,000 Nicaraguans. Opposition leaders were jailed or beaten and now sentenced to prison. Political, religious liberties have again been curtailed. The Communists ordered the Catholic archbishop to shut down the Catholic radio station, and for almost 2 weeks the independent newspaper, La Prensa, was refused permission to publish. And the American ambassador was expelled. And yet, while the cutoff of aid to the freedom fighters was a dreadful mistake, getting the cause of peace and freedom back on tracknot recriminationmust now be our goal. There is a chance for real bipartisan consensus in support of renewed contra aid. Indeed, one of its strong supporters has recently been named to be the Vice Presidential candidate of the Democratic Party. Senator Bob Dole intends soon to offer legislation to renew effective assistance to the freedom fighters. The final details are being worked out. And I urge the Members of the Senate to support the aid package, and I also ask the House of Representatives to move speedily and favorably on the Senate legislation. Meanwhile, we continue to pursue aggressively our diplomatic efforts with the Central American democracies. So much is at stake. A few years ago, there were those who said the cause of freedom and democracy was lost in El Salvador. Well, perhaps some of you remember that incredible scene when the people of that country defied Communist threats and bullets to march to the polls and vote for democracy. The American aid package that helped make democracy victorious in El Salvador passed by only two votes in the Housebut pass it did, and democracy did come. A few weeks ago, both Vice President Bush and I visited the bedside of one of the heroes of that struggle, President Duarte of El Salvador. President Duarte has had no easy life. He has been continually threatened by extremists of both left and right. His daughter was kidnapped by Communist guerrillas. And now, while in a desperate struggle with cancer, he continues to lead his nation on the high road to democracy. I cannot tell you how deeply moved Vice President Bush and I were by our visit to this brave and remarkable man and how determined we both were that his dream for his people and all the peoples of Central America should be made a realitythe dream of peace and freedom for every man, woman, and child. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Wednesday of this past week, I took a dramatic step, one that I must admit gave me no pleasure: I vetoed the defense authorization bill. As it stood, the defense bill that Congress sent me would have made unilateral concessions to the Soviets at the very moment when we're trying to achieve a strategic arms reduction treaty. I could not in good conscience have done anything other than mark that bill "veto" and send it right back. Permit me to discuss with you for a moment just what's at stake in this whole matter of the defense bill. And in doing so, it's important to begin with some historical background. You see, it was just 8 years ago that America's defenses were in a pitiable state: weaker, relative to the threats we faced, than at any time in decades. We had airplanes that couldn't fly for lack of spare parts. Our Navy had declined from more than a thousand battle-ready ships to fewer than 500. Among our men and women in uniform, morale was understandably low. And yet at the same time, the Soviet Union was embarked upon a massive arms buildup, enlarging its Armed Forces on land, sea, and air. The Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan. It was backing Communist expansion in Africa, in Asia, and, yes, with the Sandinistas in Nicaragua, in our hemisphere. The trend was clear: American power and influence were declining, while the power of the totalitarian world was growing greater and greater. The implications for the cause of freedom, for the cause of peace, were grim. The trend had to be reversed. During these last 8 years, we've done just that-restoring America's strength. The results? Well, today the Soviets are withdrawing from Afghanistan. We're seeing progress in settling regional conflicts. And not long ago, an American President returned from a successful summit in Moscow, having earlier signed the first treaty in history that actually reduces nuclear arsenals. By the way, if we had listened to those who wanted to stop the deployment of our INF missiles in Europe, the so-called "freeze movement," we would have thrown away the bargaining leverage that forced the Soviets to return to the negotiating table. We would not have signed the INF treaty in Washington, and Soviet SS-20 missiles would still be pointed at our allies. This brings me back to the defense bill that I just vetoed. You see, if I had accepted that bill, it would have undermined the strength we've worked so hard to restore, in time jeopardizing all our remarkable diplomatic advances. Congress' defense bill represented an all but open attempt to block our Strategic Defense Initiative, or, as we call it, SDI. Yet no development has been of greater importance in our strategic arms negotiations with the Soviets than our decision to proceed with SDI. The idea of SDI is simple: to give us the advanced technologies necessary to defend us and our allies from attack by nuclear-armed ballistic missiles. Some said it would take years to develop such a technologically sophisticated defense system. We said, All the more reason to get started right now. And in fact, as SDI has gone forward, overall progress has taken place even faster than we had hoped. Perhaps the best endorsement for SDI comes from the Soviets themselves, since they've long engaged in many kinds of strategic defense programs of their own. But Congress wants to cut our budget request for SDI deeply. Congress also wants to cut all requests for funding one of the most promising SDI technologies, the space based interceptor program, by over 70 percent. But it's not just the damage done to SDI's funding and space component that concerns me. From requirements for unilateral disarmament, missile testing, the bill represents an attempt by Congress to handcuff the President in our arms reduction negotiations with the Soviets. And this kind of unilateral concession to the Soviets could set back all the progress we've made on the arms reduction front. Now that I've vetoed the defense bill, there's talk on Capitol Hill about producing an even worse defense bill as an act of political retribution. Well, let me ask you: What could be more deplorable than to use the defense of this nation as a political pawn? It won't happen, not if I have anything to say about it. As long as I'm President, our nation's defenses, including our strategic defenses, will remain above partisan politics. Congress needs to go back to work to pass a new defense bill, one that I can sign because it strengthens our negotiating hand instead of weakening it. We may be Republicans or Democrats, but when it comes to a strongly defended nation, we must all be simply Americans. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This coming week the Republican National Convention will take place in New Orleans, the 32d such convention since the Grand Old Party first met in 1856. I want to talk about that convention in just a moment, but first I'd like to tell you a little about what's been taking place here at the White House in the past few days. And you should know, I have a special reason for wanting to do so. You see, in this campaign season, some in the other party are parading around the country, talking and talking about what they claim they'd do if they were elected. Well, while they talk, we deliver. To begin with, I recently vetoed the defense bill that Congress had sent me. Why? Because Congress, perhaps taking their cue from the other party's leadership, laid on my desk a bill that would have set back our nation's defenses severely. I won't stand for that and neither will George Bush. Now it's up to Congress to come up with a new bill, one that strengthens our defenses instead of weakening them and strengthens our hand still further in dealing with the Soviets. Still on foreign affairs, we're seeking from Congress effective aid for the freedom fighters in Nicaragua. In recent weeks, the Communist regime in Nicaraguathe regime the freedom fighters are opposing-has stalled the Arias peace plan, expelled the American Ambassador to Nicaragua, shut down the independent press, and brutally suppressed a peaceful protest. Regarding Nicaragua, the leadership of the other party advocates policies of disengagement and unconcern, policies that would surely permit the Communists to consolidate their power. Indeed, they would permit a Communist lock on a nation right here in our own hemisphere. George Bush and I happen to disagree with them. It's our firm belief that in Nicaragua the United States has a high moral duty: a duty to stand for human liberty and to extend our help to those who are struggling to secure it. Turning to matters here at home, we saw the passage this past week of an important fair housing bill. George Bush and I have supported stronger fair housing measures from the first, and I look forward to signing the measure. On Wednesday, I signed legislation that compensates Japanese-Americans who were wrongly interned during the Second World War. And on Thursday, I signed into law the largest disaster relief bill in our history: drought legislation that will help the tens of thousands of American farmers who are suffering from this summer's terrible shortage of rain. So, while the other party talks about compassion, we put it into action. We're also working on important legislation involving trade. And in this connection, I might as well admit that the leadership of the other party has my Irish up. You see, they talk as if the country were in some kind of recession, if not in outright depression. But the truth is just the opposite. Since George Bush and I put our economic policies in place, we've witnessed the longest peacetime expansion in American history, an expansion that has created over 171/2 million jobs. Now the Vice President and I are determined to go still further, opening America and all the world to still greater trade and economic growth. This past week we saw the implementing legislation for the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement move closer to final congressional approval. And Congress has passed a trade bill, one that more closely reflects George Bush's and my emphasis on world trade that is both free and, yes, fair. So you see, while the leadership of the other party have been talking, George Bush and I've been hard at work, putting into practice the ideals you believe in, the ideals that, at her heart, America has always stood for: strong defenses; low taxes and limited government; compassion and fair play, like that embodied in the fair housing bill; faith in our future; and an openness to the rest of the world, as demonstrated in our trade legislation. And, yes, those are just the ideals you'll hear us Republicans rededicating ourselves to this coming week in New Orleans. You know, I'll be addressing the Republican convention on Monday, the opening night, and taking an active role in the coming campaign. But even so, my name won't appear on any ballot this fall. What's at stake for me in this election is my love for America and my dreams for her future. And that's what my support for Vice President Bush comes down to. You see, George Bush understands that the question for America today is not "What's different?" but "What's next?" Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You and I had the privilege of attending quite a party this week in New Orleans. Of course, I'm talking about the Republican National Convention. And let me tell you, when the Grand Old Party throws itself a grand old party, it can even give the exuberant folks of New Orleans a lesson or two in how to have fun. I was moved beyond words to see my very, very good friend and colleague George Bush accepting the nomination for President. On Monday night, I said I wanted to work as a foot soldier in George's campaign. After hearing his speech Thursday night, all Americans could see what I've seen for 8 years: dedication, integrity, and commitment to principle; a strong man and a strong leader. I've said many times that George has the experience, the credentials, the savvy, and thewellthe just plain grit to be President of the United States. Jerry Ford put it so beautifully in his address Tuesday night: "When his nation needed him to fly 58 combat missions during World War II, George answered America's call. When our intelligence agencies were under siege during the 1970's, George made a vital contribution to our national security by restoring their dignity and integrity." I said the other night that, as Vice President, George Bush brilliantly served his nation's quest for peace by playing a vital role in the process that has led to the historic INF treaty that will eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. He also led the battle on a quiet but absolutely critical front in our struggle to restore America's economic strength. I'm talking about his determined attack on unnecessary government regulations that had our economy under siege and were assaulting job creation. Yes, if you're one of the many millions of Americans who has found a new job in the last 8 years, one major reason that job exists may well be George Bush. And one other thing: George has always given me straight-from-the-shoulder advice and counsel on how we could advance our vision for the future, and he's always been candid with me when we disagreed. That's the George Bush I know best. But there's also the George Bush who's a father of 5, grandfather of 10, a devoted husband, a man never too busy to take the time to help a friend who needed him. The strength and wisdom of George Bush was reflected this week in the strength and wisdom of the Republican Party itself, just as the energy and enthusiasm of the party were reflected in the energy and enthusiasm of Senator Dan Quayle. Dan was elected to the Senate on the day I was first elected President. Dan shares with George Bush and me a vision of an America and a world no longer threatened by the specter of nuclear attack. That's why Dan has labored with conviction for the Strategic Defense Initiative. And he shares a vision of opportunity for all Americans. And that's why he's stood with George Bush and me throughout the fight to lower tax rates and increase opportunity for all Americans. Throughout the week our party's leaders came together in a display of force and gracethe no-nonsense wit and wisdom of Bob Dole, the intellectual dynamism of Jack Kemp, the big-hearted populism of Tom Kean, the Texas gusto of Phil Gramm, and so many others. And there were those who brought a special message of unity to the party. Like me, Jeane Kirkpatrick and Bill Bennett were once Democrats, and like me, they've found a home in the Republican Party. Yes, Bill and Jeane and all those who spoke proved that the Republican Party is a party proud of its vision for the future and ready to lay it out in detail. Just look at the Republican platform. This 40,000 word document spells out the views of George Bush and our party on almost every major issue facing the Nation today. Like it or notand I like itwhen you read it, you know where George stands. Now, compare it with the 4,000 word document passed by the opposition last month in Atlanta. That document is a plethora of platitudes, and it points up the difference between the two parties. Our friends in Atlanta won't tell you what they'll do if they get elected, but George Bush and Dan Quayle already have. George and Dan and our party have spread their roadmap out on the table for all to see, while the other guys won't tell us where they're going and won't even give us directions. It will take more than platitudes to convince the American people: It will take the courage to stand up for principle. Yes, this week, as in every week for the past 8 years, George Bush has stood up for principle. He's been in on the tough decisions, working for peace through strength and prosperity through liberty. And I'm proud to stand with him. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: I want to talk to you today about some good things that are happening around the world, a move toward peace that shows how successful this nation's commitment to peace through strength has been. In the Persian Gulf, a cease-fire has been declared in one of this era's most horrible conflicts, the Iran-Iraq war. In Asia, half the Soviet Union's invasion force has left Afghanistan, and the rest are due out early next year. In Southeast Asia, Vietnam has promised to withdraw its occupation force from Cambodia. In southern Africa, we're brokering an agreement that may lead to the departure of all Cuban and South African forces from Angola. And we seem to have a more constructive relationship with the Soviet Union because of the Afghanistan withdrawal, human rights improvements, and the INF treaty that eliminates an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. Peace is gaining ground, but the gains haven't just come in the last few months. It's taken 7 1/2 years of effort. We came into office convinced that the word "peace" is just an empty slogan unless the word "strength" follows hard upon it. Peace is a godly thing, but men are seldom godly. What we've learned is that peace is hard to achieve unless the forces of good have the strength to stand firmly for it. Before we took office in 1981, the globe was reeling from an explosion of international turbulence. Our nation had neglected its defenses for years while some assured us that a passive America would enjoy a peace that was more, not less, secure. But that's not how things turned out. Soon we saw Vietnam invade Cambodia and the Soviet Union invade Afghanistan. Iraq and Iran began their war during this period as well. Over and over, we Americans saw that when our nation does not maintain her strength, peace has no anchor in the world. Our resolve was tested early on. The Soviet Union had deployed highly destabilizing intermediate-range missiles in Europe and Asia, a threat to peace. With our NATO allies, we went to the Soviets with a proposal: Get rid of those missiles, we said, before we match them with missiles of our own. And the Soviets turned us down. They were daring us to deliver, and we did. Our determination, and that of our allies, to see our missiles installed in Europe convinced the Soviet Union that the days of unilateral disarmament were over. And once the Soviets learned they could not intimidate us or cajole us into giving them the advantage, they came to the bargaining table. They did business because we proved we meant business. We also meant business when we said we would not sit idly by as noble and brave Afghan freedom fighters resisted an invasion of their country. Our aid to the Afghan resistance has been of critical importance in the Soviet decision to go home. Once again, they did business because we proved we meant business. In Angola, Jonas Savimbi's UNITA has been fighting for 13 years against the Marxist regime and its Cuban protectors. In 1975, President Gerald Ford wanted to help, but some in Congress felt our standing with the freedom fighters would only prolong hostilities. A law was passed that made aid illegal, and the war dragged onthe Cubans multiplied. In 1985 Congress repealed the law and began supporting UNITA. Now the Cubans are talking of a pullout. They're doing business because we showed them we meant business. We've proved that we can stand united as a country that means businessbusiness for peace. Our bipartisan policy in the Persian Gulf has been to stand firm against Iranian aggression and for the principle of free navigation. Now the Iran-Iraq war is coming to a close. Why? One reason, as retired Admirals Elmo Zumwalt and Worth Bagley put it, was that the allied naval operationdesigned to be a deterrentworked. Contrast these successes with the tragic situation in Nicaragua. It's been almost 2 years since Congress has approved any military aid to the brave freedom fighters there. Here's the results: The Sandinistas come to the bargaining table making promises to bring democracy and end the war, and then they violate those promises with impunity. They kick out our Ambassadors, oppress their people, arrest their opposition, muzzle the media, and engage in vicious assaults on civilians to get them to stop aiding the freedom fighters. They feel free to do all this because they do not believe that we mean business. Our policy of peace through strength has been vindicated wherever it's been tried. There is still time to turn the tide in Nicaragua. We shouldn't be overly optimistic, for freedom still faces serious challenges, whether in South Asia or Eastern Europe. But the future for world peace is bright if we Americans continue to stand firm, stand tall, and stand for freedom. Until next week, thank you for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Labor Day weekend is a time to remember the importance of work and family in our nation's life. And on this Labor Day, we Americans have much to remember and to give thanks for. Yes, today more of us have jobs than ever before. And just yesterday we learned that in August as great a proportion of us have jobs as ever before and the unemployment rate hovered just above the lowest it's been in 14 years. Since our recovery began, America has created more than 17 1/2 million jobs2 1/2 times more jobs than France, Britain, Germany, Italy, Canada, and Japan put together. Our expansion has created jobs in nearly all sectors of the economy: more than a million in manufacturing; more than a million in construction; millions more still in services, from banking and insurance to computer programming. And you can find these new jobs in every region: from the industrial Midwest, where new industries are springing up and old industries are running at full capacity; to the South, where the economy is strong and getting stronger; to our coasts, where our success in opening international markets is helping America export more than ever before in history. And these rising exports and the declining trade imbalance will create even more jobs all around the Nation in the months ahead. But not only do we have more jobs, we have better jobs at better pay. On average, the jobs created in our expansion pay more and require a higher level of skills than the jobs that existed when our expansion began. This is just one of the reasons why, if your family is like most families between 1977 and 1981, after taking out the sky-high inflation of those years, you saw your income fall almost 7 percent. But since 1981that is, since the year we came to officeyour real income has soared more than 10 percent. To give one example of what this means, in the years we took office, the average family made only about 70 percent of what it needed to buy a new home. Today that family makes 110 percent of what it needs, and it can afford to buy the house. Leaders all over the world have asked how we achieve this growth and prosperity. Well, my answer is simple: less government, more freedom, and moving toward a more open and equitable international economy. Thanks to our expansion, nearly 3 million Americans have escaped poverty; but this week we got a warning. While we learned that last year family income went up and that the poverty rate dropped slightly, we also learned that some groups lagged behind in the past year. We've assisted many of our fellow citizens through the Job Training Partnership Act. Sponsored chiefly by Senator Dan Quayle, this legislation has been very effective in retraining citizens to become productive wage earners again. But there are still some Americans whom our expansion has passed bythose caught in the welfare trap. Programs that were intended to help poor citizens have instead made them dependent on government checks, unable to break away and become productive workers in a growing economy. In the name of compassion, too many Americans on welfare have been robbed of the one priceless item with which they could build a future: hope. It's time to return hope to those on welfare, which is why our administration has worked to reform the welfare system. For starters, we took a simple principle: that Washington doesn't know everything. And instead of dictating reforms, we told the 50 States that we'd approve any experiment intended to reduce dependency. Our only conditions? That needs would continue to be met, that there'd be no net increase in Federal costs, and that results could be measured. One State after another responded, until now nearly half of the States have implemented or proposed widespread welfare reform plans that build upon some good old common sense: that the best way to learn to work is to work. Our administration is trying to join with Congress to take what we've learned with the States and establish work requirements into the Federal law. Now Congress appears to be close to a decision about welfare reform, and I have a message for them: I will not accept any welfare reform bill unless it is geared to making people independent of welfare. Any bill not built around work is not true welfare reform. If Congress presents me with a bill that replaces work with welfare expansion and that places the dignity of self-sufficiency through work out of the reach of Americans on welfare, I will use my veto pen. While others have talked about good jobs at good wages, we've delivered. Now it's time for Congress to join with us in making sure that the opportunities created by this prosperity reach into every American home. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: It's September, a time when our children once again return to school, bright with promise and eager for instruction. I'm happy to report that if the record of the past 8 years is any indication the prospects for their education are brightbrighter than they've been for more than two decades. Test scores are up, reversing a calamitous drop in scores over the years between 1963 and 1980. Attendance is up, and the number of kids who drop out of high school is down. The recovery of our schools has been a genuine grassroots accomplishment, and it proves the solution to problems is not to throw money at them but to come up with commonsense answers and start applying them. I'm proud that during our administration George Bush and I have been there with a sympathetic ear and a helping hand. But we've only just begun. Far too many American students are graduating from school without the skills they will need to prosper and the knowledge they'll need to grow as adults. And no one knows this better than America's parents, who rose up at the beginning of the decade and said: Our children are not getting the education they want, need, and deserve. The education our children want is the ability to discover the answers to the basic questions we all have: Who am I? Where do I live? And what is the world around me like? Children yearn to learn, and their capacity for it is one of the God-given wonders. The education our children need is the ability to read, write, and reason as well as any student in any country in the world. They need it, and the Nation needs it, as well, if we're to prosper and grow. The education our children deserve is the kind no American should be deprived of, for it's the basic instruction in what it means to be an American. I believe that the education of all Americans must be rooted in the self-evident truths of Western civilization. These are the truths that have been passed down like precious heirlooms from generation to generation since the generations began. Since the founding of this Nation, education and democracy have gone hand in hand. Thomas Jefferson not only wrote the Declaration of Independence and served as our third President but also founded one of our most distinguished institutions of higher learning, the University of Virginia. Jefferson and the Founders believed a nation that governs itself, like ours, must rely upon an informed and engaged electorate. Their purpose was not only to teach all Americans how to read and write but to instill the self-evident truths that are the anchors of our political systemtruths, to quote Jefferson, such as: "all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness." This is our precious heritage. And our political freedomsthe freedom to speak, to practice our religions, to assemble peacefully-are the product of ideas that were born and nurtured in the great tradition of Western civilization. That tradition does not say "some men" have these rights; it says "all men," everywhere on this Earth. Whether of Asian, Hispanic, or African descent, no matter what color, every American is the inheritor of our great cultural tradition. That's why I've supported, and continue to support, all efforts to teach our children about our culture, to read great texts and learn their lessons. Bill Bennett, our Secretary of Education, has just reported on the state of elementary education in our country. That report, entitled "James Madison Elementary School," presents an outline for what every elementary school curriculum should include. It is suffused with the glory of Western civilization, and I salute it. We owe our children no less than to instruct them in what Matthew Arnold called the best that has been known and said. And yet, just as forcefully, I want to say that this curriculum is only a guideline for school districts to follow if they think it right. The final arbiter of what a child should learn is not the state, but the family and the community in which the child lives. And so, I support the right of all parents to choose the education they believe is best for their children, in the form of magnet schools and State programs like Minnesota's, which permits parents to choose which schools their children can attend. In addition, programs like Youth 2000, which teaches kids to rely on themselves and to say no to drugs, are vital in our efforts. Yes, we're blessed to be the recipients of this cultural bounty. And we must be responsible to, as the Constitution says, "secure the blessings to our posterity." Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Let me begin this talk with a special message to the people of Texas. Last night many of you endured the ravages of Hurricane Gilbert. Today, as you wait for the waters to recede and the cleanup to begin, Nancy and I and all Americans hold you in our prayers. We all have one blessing to count: warning came early. You were ready; so are we. The Federal Government has spent the last week preparing to help during and after the storm. We've offered help, as well, to our international friends who felt Gilbert's full force. As I told Jamaican Prime Minister Edward Seaga, we're ready to play an active role in helping them rebuild. Now, on a happier note, if you're like me, you look forward every 4 years to a very special event: the summer Olympics. As you know, this week and next, the Olympics are being held in Seoul, South Korea. Last night athletes from all over the world marched around the Olympic stadium there and stood and watched as a single torchbearer climbed the steps and lit the Olympic flame, marking the start of the games. I'm sure that like me, you'll be proud of all of these young men and women, and particularly of our own American athletes. Our athletes are a remarkable group, not only for their achievements but for how they represent so much of what is good and beautiful and splendid about this sweet and promised land. As Vice President Bush said, when, representing all of us, he saw them off 2 weeks ago: they stand for "the country of the little guy, the country where, no matter what the circumstances of your birth or background, you can go anywhere and do anything; where the millionaire has no more vote than the pauper; where the sense of possibilities is so palpable you can almost breathe it in the air." The Vice President was right, and I've always thought you could see the spirit of which he spoke in all our Olympic athletes. You can see it in the way so many of them will pause in their daily training in Seoul, as our athletes have at past Olympics, to help competitors from countries where good coaching is hard, if not impossible, to find. You can see it in stories that have been told about American Olympians over the years, like the one about a boyhood hero of mine, Jim Thorpe. In the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm, Thorpe took the gold in both the pentathlon and the decathlon. He was the most talked-about competitor at those games. With his medals won, Thorpe was presented to the King of Sweden, who said, "You, sir, are the world's greatest athlete." And what was Thorpe's reply to this august European monarch? It was simple, straightforward, and American. He said, "Thanks, King." And you can see the American spirit in the lives of every one of our team members at these games. This team comes from all over our nation, from the rough and tumble streets of our brawny cities to the quiet lanes of our vast countryside, from the suburban hills of southern California to riverfront towns in the Midwest. They represent every aspect of our country's life and a shining hope, too, a crystalline beacon of opportunity that we know is the heart of America. One athlete, raised in very modest circumstances, recalled recently that, "We were rich as a family." And that wealth of love has given her the strength to achieve her dream, just as throughout our history the wealth of family love has given countless millions of Americans the strength to pursue their dreams in our land of opportunity. There's so much we have to be proud of in our Olympic team this year. In all teams from all over the world, no group of young men and women is quite like them. They're filled with optimism for the future, with faith in the boundless possibilities of humanity, with zest for a life pursuing excellence, pursuing achievement, pursuing the limits of their God-given abilities, and piercing beyond what they thought were those limits. As an Olympic athlete from another nation recently marveled about our nation and its people, he said: "In America, they appreciate achievement and faith in the future. In fact," he said, "it's a prerequisite for getting around." And he concluded, contrasting the energy of the United States to other countries he had known: "For everybody in the street in America, every day is a competition." Yes, our athletes have a love, a happiness, and an exuberance in being American. They're as patriotic as the Pledge of Allegiance; as red, white, and blue as the flag. They're filled with the spirit of our land in all of its magnificent diversity, a diversity you can see even in their faces. When you look at most other teams, it's easy to tell what continent or region they're from. But we Americans come from every continent and region. Ours are the faces of all humanity, just as our nation was built by the hopes of all humanity. So, as you watch these Olympics, rememberwin, lose, or draw-how much we have to be proud and thankful for. After all, we're Americans. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In just 2 days, on Monday morning, I will have the honor of representing you and our country when I appear before the General Assembly of the United Nations. This will be my seventh and final appearance as President before the U.N. And on each of these occasions, as with each time I've represented America in my trips overseas, whether to the Berlin Wall or the demilitarized zone in Korea, to the canals of Venice or the Palace of Versailles in France, to the Great Hall of the People in Beijing or St. George's Hall in Moscowyes, whenever I've carried our flag into meetings with foreign leadersI have felt a special pride. We Americans have so much of which to be proud, so much that others can only dream of, most of all our freedom and our democracy; and we stand for so much that is good and decent and honorable in the world. When I step up to the podium on Monday, I will see before me the representatives of nearly all the countries on Earth. Some, like Western European nations, Canada, and Japan, are longstanding democracies, major industrial powers, and good friends. Others, like the Philippines, South Korea, and many countries in Latin America, are fledgling democracies with economies that hold great promise, even ifas is the case in the Philippines right nowthose economies are troubled. Others struggle toward democracy or economic strength, or both. And too many others still live in lands that know neither. My message this year to the delegates of the United Nations will be a message of hope. For 8 years, around our nation and around the world, I've been saying that the key to world peace and human freedom is the strength and determination of the great democracies. This year, as we survey the scene one last time, we can see that our strength has indeed proven to be the engine of peace and hope in the world. Nowhere is this clearer than in U.S.-Soviet relations. Just 8 years ago, our critics at home were calling our plans to restore America's strength a threat to world peace. These were often the same people who later criticized our rescue mission in Grenada, when we freed that tiny island nation from the grip of a Communist tyranny, or who were to condemn our strike against Qadhafi's Libya. And, yes, in the fall of 1983, when the Soviets walked out of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces talks in Geneva, many of these same critics said we were to blame. Our firm stance in negotiations and the resolve of our allies precipitated the breakdown in the talks, they said. And they criticized our zero-option proposal that called for the elimination of an entire class of U.S. and Soviet ballistic missiles. They said it was unrealistic and a sign that we were not serious about arms reductions. Well, as you know, we continued to hold firm; and finally the Soviets returned to the bargaining table. Just a few months ago, Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev and I stood in the gilded splendor of one of the Kremlin's most splendid rooms and exchanged the instruments of ratification for the INF treaty, a treaty that will, for the first time in history, eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. At the U.N. on Monday, I'll talk about this and other successes for our philosophy of peace through strength. A firm show of strength by America and its allies has kept the vital international shipping lanes of the Persian Gulf open and was a key factor in pushing one of the bloodiest wars of this century to a cease-fire. From Cambodia to Afghanistan to Angola, our strength, our assistance to those who would fight for freedom, has given both peace and freedom a new breath of life and given the people of those countries new hope. Yes, the world today is filled with realistic hopes for peace and freedom that would have seemed totally utopian just 8 years ago. After all, 8 years ago, who would have thought that a President of the United States could stand before an assembly of students in the Soviet Union and speak to them about the wonders of freedom? The great question now is: What next? Where does the world go in the next 8 years and the next 80 years? What are the steps we might take toward a safer, better, freer world? And I'll have some thoughts of my own on Monday. One thing is certain. If we're to continue to advance world peace and human freedom, America must remain strong. We must turn a deaf ear to those born-again patriots who talk about strength while serving up the same old menu of weakness. If we have learned anything these last 8 years, it's that peace through strength works. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: In the past few weeks, you and I and all Americans have won some major victories here in Washington. These victories didn't come easily, but each will help shape our nation in the years ahead. One of the most important has to do with the Federal budget. Only once since 1948 has all of the budgeting of the United States Government been approved by Congress and signed by the President on or before the beginning of the fiscal year. And too often, when the budget process has reached an impasse, appropriations have been dumped into massive continuing resolutions. The worst of these came along last year. Congress poured all of the Government's appropriations into a single bill. The bill was 1,057 pages long, weighed 14 pounds, and arrived over 2 months after the fiscal year began. Not even Congress knew what was in it. I said in January that the next time Congress pulled such a stuntwell, never again. Well, I'm happy to report that today, October 1st, marks the beginning of the fiscal year. And at this hour, for the first time in years, all the Government's budgetary work is done. The last of the Government's 13 appropriations bills have been delivered to me, and I have signed them. It was touch and go for a while whether we would actually meet the deadline. The appropriations bill for the District of Columbia provided financing of abortions, long after most other Federal abortion financing has stopped. We said public money should not be used for abortions; many liberals said it should be. We won. The Defense appropriations bill was also a close call. As you know, many liberals are opposed to our Strategic Defense Initiative. Why they would want to deny America a defense against nuclear missiles, a defense that the Soviets have been candid enough to say they're building for themselveswhy the liberals would want to do that, I don't know. They had, through various devices, restricted how we spent money on SDI research and development. These restrictions could have crippled critical parts of the program. But early this week, we got the restrictions removed from all bills, and research will go forward to find a way to end the nightmare of nuclear terror. I hope the last 24 hours prove historic and mark the end of the "Perils of Pauline" budget games Congress played for so long. Another recent historic accomplishment is passage of a bill implementing the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement. When similar legislation is enacted in Canada, North America will be on its way to becoming the world's largest open market. Thanks in part to our successful policy, begun the day George Bush and I took office, of opening markets around the world to American goods, America is today in the longest peacetime economic expansion on record. Canada is also growing strongly. Opening our mutual border to uninhibited commerce will help that unprecedented expansion continue into the next decade and the next century. This week we won one other major victory in Congress, and took a giant step toward reforming a welfare system that is a trap for too many of our fellow citizens. I've often said that genuine welfare reform must be geared to making people independent of welfare; and that means, among other things, that those who receive welfare must be required to work. Too many liberals have fought this idea every step of the way. But yesterday we prevailed, and the welfare reform legislation that will arrive on my desk shortly includes a work requirement. Even as we can take pride in these great victories, a couple of other legislative battles continue to rage over the textile bill-which I vetoed this weekand the drug bill. On the textile bill, the problem is that the bill is protectionist and would draw foreign retaliation against American products. With America exporting more than ever, protectionism means destroying American jobs, and I won't allow it. The House-passed drug bill provides for a Federal death penalty for drug-related killings. Liberals in Congress oppose the death penalty and other necessary improvements in the law and plan to kill the bill in the Senate. They've also recently cut funding for the Federal agencies that enforce our drug laws. It's time the liberals realized that the fight against drugs is not "Pee Wee's Big Adventure" but a serious and dangerous business. And our law enforcement officers should have all the tools they need to do their job. I urge the Senate to follow the House's lead and give America a strong drug bill. I urge Congress to act swiftly this week to restore full funding to drug law enforcement. With your help, in the end, what is best for the Nation will win out. It has in many ways in the past few days. Let's hope Congress will do what's right on the textile and the drug bills. Until next week, thanks for listening and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: You're probably just as delighted as I am with the wonderful news about unemployment that we received yesterday. The unemployment rate dropped fully two-tenths of a percent in September to 5.4 percent for all civilian workers and 5.3 percent when you include the military. But behind these numbers is more good news: 255,000 people got new jobs last month in the nonfarm sector, which means that since the recovery began in 1982, over 18 million new jobs have been created. There's nothing more pleasing than watching America move forward with purpose. And the news reminds us yet again that this great nation is, as Senator Dan Quayle said, "the envy of the world." Now, I'd like to turn to another subject: the war on drugs. I want all Americans to take heart. This war is not yet won, not by a long shot. But we're doing better, and our nation is united against this scourge as never before. Right now there's a drug bill on Capitol Hill. It has passed the House but hasn't even come up for consideration in the Senate, and time is fast running out. The House bill has many good and tough provisions that express our national commitment to five simple but powerful words. Those words are "zero tolerance" and "just say no." When we say zero tolerance, we mean, simply, that we've had it. We will no longer tolerate those who sell drugs and those who buy drugs. All Americans of good will are determined to stamp out those parasites who survive and even prosper by feeding off the energy and vitality and humanity of others. They must pay. We believe that when those who sell drugs are caught they must make redress for the damage they cause. That's why the administration, personified by the leadership and passion of this administration's point man on drugs, Vice President George Bush, and the national voice of conscience, my wife, Nancy, has advocated tougher measures than ever before to combat the drug runners and the drug dealers. We're doing this by seizing the ill-gotten possessions of drug dealers and their accomplices. Those fancy cars and fancy houses and bank accounts full of dirty money aren't really theirs. They were bought from the sale of illegal blood pollutants. We do not tolerate companies that poison our harbors and rivers, and we won't let people who are poisoning the blood of our children get away with it either. Those who have the gall to use federally subsidized housing to peddle their toxins must get the message as well. We will not tolerate those who think they can do their dirty work in the same quarters where disadvantaged Americans struggle to build a better life. We want to kick the vermin out and keep them out. Nor can we allow these people to hide behind bizarre legal challenges when we do arrest them and work to see them jailed. And that's why we are advocating a change in the law that will allow exceptions in the so-called exclusionary rule to permit the use in court of evidence gathered in good faith by the police. Nor can our vigilance cease once they're behind bars. George Bush has proposed, and I support, drug testing for all who seek early release from jail, to send them this message: You don't go free until you're drug free. We won't have a drug-free society until we manage to stop the drugs before they get to our shores. We must protect our coasts, and that means using the resources and calling on the noble men and women of the Coast Guard to protect us. We've sought increases in the drug enforcement budget, but in the past we've encountered consistent resistance from Congress. I requested $538 million for the Drug Enforcement Administration in fiscal '89, but Congress hacked $33 million away. I think drug enforcement is too important a matter for this kind of political behavior, and I imagine you agree with me. But there is a way, more vital than all of these, that we can express our revulsion at the violence and degradation of the life of the drug peddler. These people seem to feel nothingno fear, no remorse, nothing-when they pull out a machinegun and murder a police officer in the line of duty. The bill that has passed the House provides for the death penalty for these vicious killers. We must, we need, and we will, have this law. Now, there are those who have opposed the House bill because it includes the death penalty. Others oppose it because of the "good-faith" exception to the exclusionary rule. I believe these people are more concerned with the abstract rights of criminals than the right of our society to save itself from those in this country and outside who seek their fortune in our national misfortune. I challenge the U.S. Senate to get that bill passed. The Nation demands it, and there's no time to waste. Compromises on the key provisions are unacceptable. We must let the drug kingpins know: Your days are numbered. Our cause is just, and we will triumph. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today we learned that there will be no Gramm-Rudman-Hollings sequester this year. With that in mind, I'd like to take a moment to talk about one of Washington's favorite pastimes: making the Federal budget. As Congress prepares to leave town, many of its liberal leaders are congratulating themselves about their handling of the budget. And, yes, at least Congress didn't repeat its budget performance of last year: one desperation bill called a continuing resolution passed over 2 months late rather than the 13 regular appropriations bills required by law. Congress heard my warning that if that happened again I'd use my veto pen, even if it meant shutting down the entire Government. So, we stopped Congress from once more saying, "The dog ate my homework," when its budget assignment was due; and we got them to cut spending enough so that we'll meet the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings targets this year. But left to its own devices, Congress would not have done this. You see, Congress is still controlled by liberal big spenders. And no matter when they hand in their homework, they still call every paper "tax and spend." You may have heard a lot of campaign talk from our liberal friends recently about the Federal deficit and Federal debt. What you don't hear them say is that the President can't spend one dime of the Government's money without congressional appropriations. Only Congress can decide how much the Government spends. Only Congress can pass spending bills. Only Congress can determine how big the deficit will be, or if we're to have a deficit at all. In fact, it is against the law for the President to spend a penny more or a penny less than Congress directs him to spend. The President can't add to the deficit. He can't subtract from it either. That's Congress' job. And how many of us have stopped to think that our liberal friends have had a majority in the House of Representatives for 52 of the last 56 years and in both Houses of Congress for 46 of those 56 years? And in all that time, there were only 8 scattered years in which the budget was balanced; the last time was 1969. Over the years, I've asked Congress for many spending cuts that Congress with its liberal leadership has rejected. Add them all up, and they come to more than this year's entire budget deficit. Think of it: We could have wiped out a year of deficits if our liberal friends in Congress were as dedicated to reducing government spending as we are. Of course, the liberal big spenders in Congress will tell you that they're for reducing the deficit and even for reducing spending. But somehow for them reduced spending always comes down to reduced defense spending. And time and again, when they've cut defense spending, it's just been a cover for spending more on their special interest programs. In 6 years, the liberal leadership in Congress cut defense spending authority by over $125 billion. And for every dollar they cut from defense outlays, they added $2 to domestic spending. I've called on our liberal friends in Congress to admit their addiction to big spending and to give the President more tools to help him help them kick the habit. And that's why I've wanted a balanced budget amendment: to require them to live within their means. And it's why I've wanted a line-item veto for the President: so the President can go through the budget, lift out bad spending, item by item, and make Congress vote on it out in the open, not hidden with thousands of other items. That way, if the spending really is bad, you'll know about it, and your representatives will have to answer to you when they go home and ask for your vote. You can see why the liberal congressional leadership is dead-set against the balanced budget amendment and the line-item veto. They like things just as they are, although they act as if the first chance they get they'll find a way out of the discipline of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. I'm sorry to say that the Congress' liberal leadership still has one answer to everything: raise your taxes. And if they stay in control of the Congress, they just might find a way to raise them. In the next 4 weeks, as you're thinking over how you'll vote this year, I wish you'd consider something else as well: Since we must ride two horses, Congress and the President, across every stream, shouldn't they both be going the same way? Why should we have a President who says no more taxes, and Congress have a liberal leadership that wants to tax and spend? Why should we have a President who's for a line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment, and Congress have a liberal leadership that's against both? If we don't want a tax-and-spend liberal in the White House, shouldn't we give the President we do want a Congress that will work with him? And when it comes to giving the next President a more receptive Congress, I hope you'll remember: If your Representative and Senator aren't part of the answer, you can be sure they're part of the problem. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Abraham Lincoln once said, "you can't fool all of the people all of the time." Well, this week our liberal friends have been trying to prove him wrong. They've charged that our record of lowering your taxes, ending runaway inflation, and igniting the longest peacetime economic expansion ever has been bad for middle class, working Americans. Well, it's time to remind them of a few facts. For example, the "misery index." The "misery index" was an election year gimmick they cooked up for the 1976 campaign by adding the unemployment and inflation rates. It came to 13.4 percent in 1976, and they declared that no one had a right to seek reelection with a "misery index" that high. Well, 4 years later, in the 1980 campaign, they didn't mention the "misery index," perhaps because it had grown to almost 21 percent. And this year they still aren't mentioning it. Under us, it's dropped to under 10 percent. Our liberal friends have been hopping around the country charging that real family income is no higher today than it was 20 years ago. Now, in fact, it's 14 percent higher. But why would they bring family income up at all? After all, between 1977 and 1981maybe you can guess why I pick those yearsthe typical American family's income after taking out inflation fell 7 percent. Think of what it would mean to you and your family if somebody were to cut your family's paychecks by that much today. Think of how much less you could buy at the grocery store, the clothes you couldn't get for your children, how much less you could put in the plate at your church or synagogue each week. And then think of this: Since 1981, when we came to office, the typical family's income after taking out inflation has soared more than 10 percent. One place you can see what this change means to you is in housing. Our liberal friends have been talking a great deal about affordable housing recently. Don't they remember that in 1980, as housing prices and interest rates skyrocketed togetherone of the few times in history that's happened-and real family incomes plummeted, the American dream of owning a home almost went down for the count; and the top housing official of the previous administration finally threw up his hands in despair and said, "For many hard-working families, housing is growing beyond their reach." Yes, according to real estate industry economists, in 1980 the average American family made just over three-fourths of what it needed to buy a home. Today, with interest rates half of what they were and inflation under control, the typical American family makes over 110 percent of what it takes to buy a home. Renters are also doing better. When the liberals left office, the national vacancy rates for apartments in the price range of low- and medium-income families were around 5 percent, which means it had become hard for low- and medium-income Americans to find an apartment. Today these national vacancy rates are around 8 percent, and it's the landlords who are having to wait longer to find tenants. Add this all up, and you see that we have more, much more, affordable housing today than we had 8 years ago. You'd think all these facts would give our liberal opponents pause, but apparently not. When we note that since our expansion began, America has created more than 18 million new jobs, that unemployment is nearly the lowest it's been in 14 years, and that a greater proportion of Americans are at work today than ever before in our history, the liberals blandly respond that what we need are "good jobs at good wages." Perhaps they believe that most Americans have bad jobs. I don't believe that. And to tell the truth, I find remarks that put down honest occupationsyes, including short-order chefsoffensive, and I expect you do, too. In any event, overall, job for job, the jobs created since our expansion began pay more than the jobs that existed before. The liberals charge that we've given tax breaks to the wealthy. But when we came to office the wealthy were paying 19.3 percent of the Federal individual income tax revenues. Now it's 26 percent. The charges go on and on, but the truth remains the same. No matter how you look at it, the last time they were in office, the liberals clobbered the American middle classand we stopped them. Some are calling this last-ditch opposition campaign an attempt at "class warfare." So, what's new? Our liberal friends have been at war with America's middle class for years. Now they want you to turn the other cheekbut will they just take that as an opportunity to really let you have it? Main Street America is in better shape today than it's ever been. Why would we ever want to put it back in the hands of those who almost turned out its lights? Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Not long ago a certain candidate for President said that this election is not about ideology; it's about competence. I'd like to take a few moments to talk about competence: competence in the Government and what we've done to improve it over the last 8 years. When George Bush and I arrived in Washington, we found a grossly mismanaged Federal Government. To give you one example, in the last year of the previous administration, Federal spending was increasing at the dizzying rate of 17 percent a year, which is to say almost two times as fast as the economy as a whole. Now, with the cost of the Government growing that fast, you'd think those in charge would have been keeping track of exactly how much each dollar was spent. But in fact, at that time, the Government did not know until long after the fact how much was spent. And even when it knew how much it had spent, it couldn't say for certain exactly what it had spent your money on. This, together with excessive regulations; deteriorating services; evidence of rampant waste, fraud, and abuse in a number of agencies, pointed to a government that was too big and out of control. Look at how we changed thingsstart with excessive regulations. We set up a task force headed by Vice President Bush. Its job? Identify and eliminate unnecessary Federal regulations. The results? We've cut by over 600 million man-hours a year the time that businesses, State and local governments, and you and I as ordinary citizens have to spend filling out Federal forms and doing other Federal paperwork. This achievement has been even more important than many of us realize. A leading historian has written that "government intervention and regulation was among the principal reasons for America's economic stagnation in the seventies." Under George Bush's leadership, we lifted the weight of excessive regulations, and that played a major role in getting our economy to really fly. We also set up the Private Sector Survey on Cost Control led by Peter Gracealmost 200 top business executives. This Commission spent months looking at every part of the Government, finding out where modern business practices could eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the Government. When they were through, they'd come up with 2,478 suggestions. And almost every recommendation we could put into effect without congressional action has been implemented. And we've saved close to $80 billion. We're hoping that the next Congress will pitch in and do its part. Within the administration, we set up the Council on Integrity and Efficiency. Thanks to the Council, the Government has saved, or put to better use, over $100 billion in the past 6 years. For example, it's put in computers so that we can now identify bid-rigging contractors or catch con artists who take out loans from many Federal agencies and default on all of them. And we've initiated the largest management-improvement program ever: Reform '88. By installing governmentwide cash, credit, financial, personnel, payroll, and productivity systems, we've brought common sense to the way we handle over $2 trillion that pass through the Government annually. Most of these improvements are now up and running right on schedule, and the result is that we're now doing a much better job than has ever been done of managing every single dollar the Government spends to make sure it's spent in the very best way it can be. As a result of our many reforms, the Government does all of its many jobs better and faster. For example, in 1980 it took 7 weeks to get a Social Security card; now it takes 10 days. It took 43 days to get a passport; now it takes 10 days. It took 75 days for an export license; now it's 5 days to some countries and no more than 17 days for any. And processing a claim for a title I Department of Housing and Urban Development loan has dropped from 100 days to 22. Yes, the results speak for themselves. But there are other results, too, results that show competence. These results include the longest peacetime economic expansion on record, more new jobs created than Europe and Japan combined, while cutting inflation to a third of what it was and interest rates in half. Come to think of it, I'll stack our record of competence against any, any day of the week, because you see, our ideas work, and they work for you. Yes, the leader of the other ticket says ideology doesn't matter, but of course it does. He says he's on your side, but he's wearing the liberal team's tax-and-spend jersey. Maybe it's just that, fourth quarter with the 2-minute warning sounding, he wants you to think he switched sides. But he hasn't changed; he hasn't changed his ideas. Look at the record, and you can see who's on whose side. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: After a vibrant and fractious and exciting year, we will at last be going to the polls on Tuesday and exercising our most important right: the right to choose our future, the right to vote. There's nothing more glorious than the blessing that is our God-given freedom to choose those who will lead us, and there's no sight more moving than a lone American walking to that voting booth, casting a ballot in secret, and thereby determining the destiny of this great country. And make no mistake: The choice this year at the top of the ballot is crucial. Don't listen to the cynical pundits who tell you this election isn't about the issues. Oh, yes, it is. In fact, it's about more than the issues: It's about the direction this country's going to take over the next 4 years and beyond. It's about the kind of economy we want, the kind of defense we want, the kind of values we want. The choice is yours. But, yes, my fellow Americans, there is a choice, a very, very important choice. A vote for Vice President George Bush is a vote for optimism, an expression of faith in the American experiment. It's an endorsement of what we've done these past 8 years, and of our heartfelt promise that tomorrow and the days to come will be brighter still. No one knows better than a man who has sought the highest office in this land what an awesome responsibility it is to be the vessel of change, the selection of a people in control of their present and their future. It's truly humbling. And I'd like once again to thank all of you who placed your faith in me, and I'd like to tip my hat to those who supported others but took their responsibility as citizens of a democratic society seriously and with care. I have heard your voices, like those before me and those after me. I have heard your voices, and I hope I have justified your faith. You know the two men who wish to succeed me on Tuesday. You know, also, so many otherstens of thousands of candidates on State and local and school board ballots from Hawaii to Maine. And there are ballot propositions on issues from gun control to the size of cows' stalls. And, yes, every one of these choices is vital. Every one is crucial. Every one gives you an opportunity to say: This is what I want the future to look like. This is the country I want to live in. And I believe you must take every choice, from county sheriff to President of the United States, with equal seriousness. That's because our system depends upon you, every single one of you. Alexander Hamilton, one of our Founding Fathers, said it best: "No laws have any validity or binding force without the consent and approbation of the people." Well, what we've learned in the course of human history is that dictators may coerce, and tyrants may control, but the people who obey them do so only because they are threatened with bodily harm to themselves or their families if they do not. These societies are not just, and they're not good. And perhaps most telling, they do not work. They do not work because the people have no voice. They have no say. Their elections are cynical frauds, sick jokes. Did you know that in the most recent election in the Stalinist nation of Albania, the vote tally was 1,820,652 to 1? Yes, without the fundamental freedom of the right to choose, hope disintegrates, expectations for the future suffer, and life itself becomes gray and dreary. And that means a weak economy, low standards of living, high infant mortality, and general gloom. Now, compare that kind of society with the democratic societies where the last two centuries have seen the expansion of opportunity and freedom, steady increases in standards of living, and a constant belief that things will get only better. And why? Because we who live in democracy are all our own masters, and we know that the future is ours to build and that the only limits upon us are those we place on ourselves. You can imagine how very moved I was last May to be in the Lenin Hills at a podium before an audience of students at Moscow State University speaking to them about the wonder and glory of human freedom, individual freedom. Think of those students. Only if they're very lucky and rise high in the Communist Party will any one of them ever have the influence on the course of their country's history and world history that each of you can have just by going into the voting booth. So, my fellow Americans, on Tuesday, breathe in the intoxicating air of human freedom in every polling place and voting booth in this nation and reaffirm the words in the Declaration of Independence: "All men are created equal." Thank you. And until next week, God bless you, and God bless America.\par
My fellow Americans: This week we witnessed a glorious event: We the people going to the polls to determine our political destiny. I guess I don't need to tell you I think the United States of America did itself proud with the selection of George Bush as the 41st President of the United States and Dan Quayle as his Vice President. George Bush has gotten his mandate from the American people, the mandate to continue the policies that have brought peace and prosperity, to bring hope and opportunity to all Americans, and to expand the frontiers of freedom around the world. You know, all year long people were saying it was time for a change. Well, by your choice this week, you proved we were right when we said weGeorge Bush, Dan Quayle, and the Republican Partyare the change. It began 8 years ago, and it's going to continue. But some things don't change, like the glory of the American political system. We saw it at work on Tuesday, after the dust cleared and the people had spoken. That night the Nation was fortunate to witness the grace and dignity of the Democratic candidate, Governor Dukakis, as he congratulated George Bush in his victory. He ran a tough race, full of energy and purpose, and I salute him for his dedication and courage. On Tuesday night, and in the days that have followed it, and in the 10 weeks before January 20, 1989, we the people can take pride in just how strong our political system really is. We take it for granted sometimes, but I couldn't help thinking on Tuesday night how inspiring it is that we know we Americans can choose our leader without fear of violence. All Americans, from Hawaii to Maine, know that when the voice of the people is heard, even the mightiest among us must bow before it and accept its wisdom. President-elect Bush said it well the other day: "We can now speak the most majestic words a democracy has to offer: The people have spoken." Only twice in our historyduring the dark days of our Civil Warhas anyone dared to question the wisdom of the American people as they chose their President, dared to deny the validity of the selection. In other nations, a disgruntled group of defeated politicians might try to stage a coup d'etat or might even follow our disastrous mistake from the 1860's and go to war-brother against brotherrather than consent to the will of the people. But here we Americans are, just 4 days after one of the most important nights in our history, working or playing or just enjoying our weekend. We've made our choice, and life goes on. We don't even need to give it a thought. But when we do, I think it's cause for us to wonder at our freedom. We continue to enjoy our freedom because of those brave Americans among us who have legitimately taken up arms in the service of their country, protecting and defending the United States of America. This weekend, we commemorate America's veterans, those who did their duty so that we could be free and strong, so that tyranny could find no quarter, so that we could live in peace. I think of the example of Staff Sergeant Carlos Stallard, one of the Gold Star men in World War II. In a 1944 letter to his parents, Carlos wrote: "I believe in making that future a place where little children can go swimming and playing around their homes without being mangled for life from bursting bombs and flaming debris that was once their homes, so that they can have a mother's care instead of being left in some dark corner shivering with cold and dying with hunger and wondering if mother, in a concentration camp, is being cruelly beaten or if she is dead. That's what we are fighting for, and I would gladly give 10 lives if I had them." Well, like all of us, Carlos Stallard had but one life to give for his country. He died in action in France on July 26, 1944. His heroic example reminds us why sometimes we must take up arms so that we can live free and at peace. Every veteran in this country deserves our thanks and gratitude this weekend of all weekends. And, my friends, on this, the last Veterans Day I will commemorate as President, I would like to say that if there is one change George Bush and I made that touches me most profoundly it would probably be this: Once again our young men and women are proud to wear the uniform of their countryFlight Lieutenant George Bush sure was. Until next week, thank for listening, and may God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Over 350 years ago, a small band of Pilgrims, after gathering in their first harvest at Plymouth Colony, invited their friends and neighbors, who were Indians, to join them in a feast of thanksgiving. Together they sat around their bountiful table and bowed their heads in gratitude to the Lord for all that He had bestowed upon them. This week, so many years later, we, too, will gather with family and friends and, after saying grace, carve up a turkey, pass around the cranberries and dressing, and later share slices of pumpkin pie. We Americans have so much for which to be thankful. Think of the great expanse of our nation, the rolling hills of our immense farmland. Even in years of drought, as this year has been, the plows and the sweat of America's farmers call forth from our good Earth more food than we can possibly eat-so much food that, taken together, our harvests of wheat, corn, soybeans, fruits, vegetables, and all the other bounty of our land make up one of our most important exports. Not only we but the entire world can be thankful for that. Millions of children across all the continents are happier, healthier, and stronger because of America's farmers. Now, think of our manufacturing centers. After almost a decade of hard, often painful work, cultivating our industrial fields to meet a whole new generation of world competition, this year we can see the first harvest of that work. Almost every American industry is zipping along at near-full capacity. A few years ago, journalists were calling the Midwest the Rust Belt. Now the Boom Belt would be more like it. From Lehigh Valley in eastern Pennsylvania to Dayton and Detroit and beyond, the factory whistles again sound in the old factory towns, and we hope they'll blow soon where they don't now. By the way, often those whistles are at the plants of entirely new companies, providing new products and services to the Nation and to the world. In the past year, America added 425,000 new manufacturing jobs, and when it comes to world competition, no one can stop us now. And that's not the only good news. According to one of the foremost authorities in manufacturing, Peter Drucker, the old myth about low wages and low manufacturing costs may be dead for good. In this age of high technology, factories, highly paid skilled workersAmerica's kind of workersproduce so efficiently that no one can touch them. That's why it's gratifying, but not surprising, to find out that America's manufacturing productivity has grown at one and a half times the postwar average during our expansion. And that's why this year, even as European and Japanese manufacturing employment has stagnated, our manufacturing employment has increased. But prosperity is not an end in itself. It helps us pay attention to the more important things: raising our children as we want them to be raised, helping others in need, and bringing nations together in peace. This week, world peace has been very much on my mind. Here in Washington, we've received visits from two of America's friends, Britain's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Germany's Chancellor Helmut Kohl. In our meetings, these two great leaders and I talked about the prosperity that all the nations of the industrial world enjoy and about the cuts in taxes and the return to the principles of the free market that have made it possible. And we talked about the success over the past 8 years of our policy of peace through strength. Yes, peace is another thing for which we can say a prayer of gratitude over the dinner table on Thursday, peace and abundance in this land that God has kissed. We will give thanks for these and one thing more: our freedom. Yes, in America, freedom seems like the air around us: It's there; it's sweet, though we rarely give it a thought. Yet as the air fills our lungs, freedom fills our souls. It gives breath to our laughter and joy. It gives voice to our songs. It gives us strength as we race for our dreams. Think of those around the world who cannot bow their heads in prayer without risking their lives. Think of those countries where to write an honest word or even to own a child's simple toy printing press is a crime. Think of how many countries where to dream of striking out on your own and starting a business is to take a chance not on a better life for yourself and your children but on a long stay in a prison cell. And then think of how blessed we are to be Americans. Yes, as we gather together this Thanksgiving to ask the Lord's blessings, as we of whatever faith we are give praises to His name, let us thank Him for our peace, prosperity, and freedom. Happy Thanksgiving! And until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: This week, as we prepared for Thanksgiving, Canada held an important election, and I'm pleased to again send my congratulations to Prime Minister Mulroney. One of the important issues in the Canadian election was trade. And like our own citizens earlier this month, our neighbors have sent a strong message, rejecting protectionism and reaffirming that more trade, not less, is the wave of the future. Here in America, as we reflect on the many things we have to be grateful for, we should take a moment to recognize that one of the key factors behind our nation's great prosperity is the open trade policy that allows the American people to freely exchange goods and services with free people around the world. The freedom to trade is not a new issue for America. In 1776 our Founding Fathers signed the Declaration of Independence, charging the British with a number of offenses, among them, and I quote, "cutting off our trade with all parts of the world," end quote. And that same year, a Scottish economist named Adam Smith launched another revolution with a book entitled "The Wealth of Nations," which exposed for all time the folly of protectionism. Over the past 200 years, not only has the argument against tariffs and trade barriers won nearly universal agreement among economists but it has also proven itself in the real world, where we have seen free-trading nations prosper while protectionist countries fall behind. America's most recent experiment with protectionism was a disaster for the working men and women of this country. When Congress passed the Smoot-Hawley tariff in 1930, we were told that it would protect America from foreign competition and save jobs in this countrythe same line we hear today. The actual result was the Great Depression, the worst economic catastrophe in our history; one out of four Americans were thrown out of work. Two years later, when I cast my first ballot for President, I voted for Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who opposed protectionism and called for the repeal of that disastrous tariff. Ever since that time, the American people have stayed true to our heritage by rejecting the siren song of protectionism. In recent years, the trade deficit led some misguided politicians to call for protectionism, warning that otherwise we would lose jobs. But they were wrong again. In fact, the United States not only didn't lose jobs, we created more jobs than all the countries of Western Europe, Canada, and Japan combined. The record is clear that when America's total trade has increased, American jobs have also increased. And when our total trade has declined, so have the number of jobs. Part of the difficulty in accepting the good news about trade is in our words. We too often talk about trade while using the vocabulary of war. In war, for one side to win, the other must lose. But commerce is not warfare. Trade is an economic alliance that benefits both countries. There are no losers, only winners. And trade helps strengthen the free world. Yet today protectionism is being used by some American politicians as a cheap form of nationalism, a fig leaf for those unwilling to maintain America's military strength and who lack the resolve to stand up to real enemiescountries that would use violence against us or our allies. Our peaceful trading partners are not our enemies; they are our allies. We should beware of the demagogs who are ready to declare a trade war against our friendsweakening our economy, our national security, and the entire free worldall while cynically waving the American flag. The expansion of the international economy is not a foreign invasion; it is an American triumph, one we worked hard to achieve, and something central to our vision of a peaceful and prosperous world of freedom. After the Second World War, America led the way to dismantle trade barriers and create a world trading system that set the stage for decades of unparalleled economic growth. And in one week, when important multilateral trade talks are held in Montreal, we will be in the forefront of efforts to improve this system. We want to open more markets for our products, to see to it that all nations play by the rules, and to seek improvement in such areas as dispute resolution and agriculture. We also want to bring the benefits of free trade to new areas, including services, investment, and the protection of intellectual property. Our negotiators will be working hard for all of us. Yes, back in 1776, our Founding Fathers believed that free trade was worth fighting for. And we can celebrate their victory because today trade is at the core of the alliance that secure the peace and guarantee our freedom; it is the source of our prosperity and the path to an even brighter future for America. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: There's a meeting in New York next week I'm looking forward to. I'll be getting together next Wednesday on Governor's Island with the leader of the Soviet Union, Chairman Gorbachev. This will be our last such meeting, and I must admit that I would not have predicted after first taking office that someday I would be waxing nostalgic about my meetings with Soviet leaders. But here we are for the fifth time, Mr. Gorbachev and I together, in the hope of furthering peace. And always in my mind, I go back to that first summit held in 1985 at a private villa on the shores of Lake Geneva. At the first of our fireside talks, I said to Mr. Gorbachev that ours was a unique meeting between two people who had the power to start world war III or to begin a new era for humanity. The opportunity for such a new era is there and very real. That isn't to say, of course, that that era is already upon us. No, too many fundamental differences on matters such as human rights and regional tensions remain unsettled between East and West. But it is to say that there is the hope of an era in which the terrible nightmares of the postwar era, totalitarianism and nuclear terror, may diminish significantly andplease Godsomeday fade away. Throughout the postwar period, this has always been America's agenda: that the blessings of peace and freedom we know so well in this country will someday belong to every nation, to every people. Toward this end, the United States and its allies have, over the last 8 years, pursued a course of public candor and military strength, but also a course of vigorous diplomatic engagement with the Soviets. And the Soviets have responded. The result has been progress on a wide series of fronts. First and most obvious, we have signed the first treaty in history reducing nuclear armaments; indeed, wiping out a whole class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. So, too, other arms negotiations are moving forward. In pursuing this cause, the Soviets must abide by past agreements. And in this regard, the Krasnoyarsk radar violation remains a significant problem. In the area of regional conflicts, we've seen a partial Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan and a commitment to full withdrawal by February. In Angola, U.S. mediation has led to a cease-fire and prospects for a political settlement and withdrawal of Cuban troops. In Cambodia, steps have been taken toward a withdrawal of Vietnamese troops. And in other regions, we have seen movement toward peace. So, too, in our bilateral relations with the Soviets, there has been movement toward wider exchanges between our two peoples that bring American and Soviet citizens in closer contact and communication. Finally, but most important, in the area of human rights we have also seen progress. Yes, we welcome recent steps like an end to jamming of Western broadcasts heard in the Soviet Union. But we also are hopeful that talk of democratic reform and greater freedom for all the Warsaw Pact countries will become more than just talk. We hope, for example, for a day when the Soviet Union will permit the publication of the works of Solzhenitsyn or the day when the Berlin Wall will be no more. Yes, we want bold words of reform about political and religious expression to become more than just words. So, for all the progress and all the hope, the journey to this final meeting between Mr. Gorbachev and me at Governor's Island has been a difficult one. And believe me, the journey toward better Soviet-American relations will remain a difficult one. Yet it is a journey that must continue beyond any single President or term of office. And that's why I'm particularly delighted that Vice President George Bush will be joining Mr. Gorbachev and me at Governor's Island next week. Now, I've spoken many times about Vice President Bush's foreign policy credentials and his long experience in this field. At every stage in the summit process, he has been at my side. No one is better versed in the details of Soviet-American relations or has a stronger foreign policy portfolio than our Vice President. So, while our get-together next week will not be a working summit with a formal agenda, you can be sure I'll be telling Mr. Gorbachev that George Bush represents change, yes, but also continuity; that he stands for firmness and strength and candor in the cause of freedom; that he knows intimately the essentials of the Soviet-American relationship; and that the American people do not want treaties for the sake of treaties-they want agreements that endure and help prevent wars as the world moves relentlessly toward a new birth of freedom for all humanity. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Wednesday, this week, I met with Soviet President Gorbachev for the fifth time. Together we stood under the gaze of Lady Liberty, speaking of the prospects of peace for the peoples of our two nations and for all the world. Yes, since our first summit in Geneva 3 years ago, we've traveled a great journey that has seen remarkable progress, a journey we continue to travel together. I am pleased that the Soviet Union has accepted our offer of humanitarian aid in the wake of their devastating earthquake tragedy. This has also been a period of important change inside the Soviet Union. The greater openness permitted by Moscow can be found in films, art, and literature. There is greater tolerance for those seeking to peacefully assemble, and the official press carries more independent opinions and factual reporting. And just a few years ago, who would have anticipated seeing a Soviet leader stand before the world community, heralding a plan for economic restructuring and military redeployments, and promising to meet the world community's highest standards of human rights? If this vision is realized and these promises are turned into deeds, we would be witnessing a dramatic change in the Soviet system, a long-awaited break with the past, and the opening of a new era in international affairs. Certainly the Soviet reforms have their limits, and brave dissenters within that country who have sought a fuller measure of openness continue to be dealt with harshly. But I was encouraged by the new promises of reform that Mr. Gorbachev made before the United Nations and hope to see these and past promises translated into permanent institutional changes that will signal to the peoples of the Soviet Union and the world a courageous commitment to a new path of democratization. We already see unprecedented diversity in Eastern Europe, with some countries pursuing reforms that go even beyond the Soviet example, while other countries continue to lag behind. We hope to see the day when all countries of Eastern Europe enjoy the freedom, democracy, and self-determination that their peoples have long awaited. Just a decade ago, some intellectuals widely predicted what they called convergence: the idea that the democratic world and the Communist world would merge into one hybrid system. The main question amounted to how much freedom would democratic nations have to give up in the bargain. But instead, the free world held firm to its democratic values, cleaving to truths deeply rooted in Western culture and our Judeo-Christian tradition. Moreover, we spoke openly of the moral superiority of our ideal of freedom. We candidly criticized the violations of human rights occurring behind the Iron Curtain. We rebuilt our defenses and with our allies worked to counter international aggression by our totalitarian adversaries. And we exhibited that scarcest of commodities: patience. And our steadfastness, our policies, our whole approach has borne fruit. Perhaps the most dramatic achievement came 1 year ago, when Mr. Gorbachev and I signed the historic INF treaty to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles. Next week, the Prime Ministers of two of our key NATO allies, Turkey and Italy, will visit Washington. And certainly, along with other issues, we plan to discuss this week's visit by Mr. Gorbachev and the strategic situation in Europe. For some time now, the Soviet bloc has had overwhelming superiority in conventional forces in Europe, so we welcome the Soviet force reductions that are promised. But let's remember this: Even after these redeployments are completed in 1991, the Warsaw Pact will still have a large conventional advantagean edge of about 5-to-2 in tanks and artillery and some 300,000 more troops. These unilateral reductions would, however, give a long-awaited encouragement for our efforts to achieve the genuine balance in conventional forces that would assure greater security and stability in Europe. Well, in these brightest of times, let us recall that in the darkest days of World War II, when hopes for the free world seemed most bleak, Winston Churchill rallied us to carry on, saying that "We have not journeyed all this way because we are made of sugar candy." By summoning all their strength and courage, and by pulling together, the allies prevailed. The war was won. The decades following World War II were filled with political tensions and threats to world freedom. But in recent years, we've seen hopes for a free and peaceful future restored and the chance for a new U.S.-Soviet relationship emerge. To the American people and to our allies, I would echo Churchill and say we have not come this far through lack of strength or any weakness in our resolve, nor has there been anything inevitable about what we've achieved. The unity, confidence, power, and firmness of the democracies has brought us forward, and maintaining a strong alliance will keep us moving forward. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Today I want to ask you a question: Will you help me to reduce the Federal budget deficit and then balance the budget once and for all? No, I'm not asking you to pay more taxes. I think you already pay plenty, and those trying to tax away more of your hard-earned money should be ashamed of themselves. Instead, what I need is for you to help me fix a budget system that has broken down. First, let me describe the problem, and then I'll tell you what we can do about it. The record is not good. In all but 8 of the last 56 years, the Federal Government has run a deficit, and every dime of deficit spending over these many years has been mandated by Congress. You see, under the Constitution, only Congress can spend money; the President can't appropriate a penny. Up until 1974, the President did have one effective way to control spending: He could refuse to spend money appropriated by Congress. And this ability to impound funds was routinely used by such Presidents as Thomas Jefferson and Franklin Roosevelt. In fact, three of my predecessors-Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixonused this power each year to reduce Federal spending by between 5 and 8 percent. During my Presidency, that would have reduced the deficit by billions each year, but all that changed in 1974. In the 1974 Budget and Impoundment Control Act, Congress stripped the President of his ability to refuse to spend funds. Let me try to describe the effect of this change. Suppose the rules of hockey were changed and the goalie was removed from the game. Would you be surprised if hockey scores quadrupled? Well, since Congress changed the budget law, Federal spending has in fact quadrupled, and it has come right out of your pocket. And under the new rules, the deficit has taken off. For a quarter century, the average annual Federal deficit was just 0.7 percent of gross national product. Then in the mid-1970's Congress changed the rules, and since then the deficit has been running five times higher than before. The verdict is in: The current system does not work. Can you imagine if a head of a household or a business were forced to spend every dime that was budgeted, even if savings were available? Well, that's the situation the President is in now. All he can do is ask Congress to take back funds it appropriated. Since 1982 I have requested Congress to take back unneeded funds more than 460 times, and 83 percent of the time they refused. Most of the time they didn't even bring it up for a vote. They simply said: No, spend it all. During my two terms, Congress appropriated over $100 billion more on domestic spending than I requested. But this is typical. Between 1976 and 1987a period spanning three Presidencies in which we ran a deficit each yearCongress spent an average of $30 billion per year more than the President requested. The budget system simply has no control and no internal discipline. And that's the problem. Now, here's what must be done. To solve the deficit problem, it is essential that we restore the constitutional balance and repair the system. We need to give the President greater authority to limit spendingthat means the line-item veto, which 43 Governors haveand also greater authority for a President to return unneeded funds to Congress. Congress must reform its faulty budget process. And we need a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution so the Federal Government does not spend more than it takes in. After I leave office next month, I will campaign for these reforms. So, today I'm asking you to join me in this vital campaign for the future by making your voice heard. If we achieve these reforms, the deficit will be ancient history in no time. What won't solve the problem is raising taxes. In fact, over the last 40 years the record is this: On average, every $100 of new taxes has led to $158 of new spending. And since 1981, yearly tax revenues have gone up sharplyby some $375 billionbut that hasn't balanced the budget because spending has gone up $450 billion. And less than a third of that went for defense. Yes, we've heard a lot about cuts, but by their terms, even when spending goes up, they call it a cut. For example, Medicare spending, which we've been charged with cutting, in fact has doubled. The only way to reduce the deficit is by limiting the increase in spending, and that's what my last budget will do. Without touching Social Security or raising taxes, our fiscal year 1990 budget will reduce the deficit by some $35 billion, more than meeting the Gramm-Rudman target. You see, economic growth will increase revenues by $80 billion without new taxes. Just by holding spending increases to less than $80 billion, we will reduce the deficit and put ourselves on track for a balanced budget by 1993. And with your help that will be done. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tomorrow is a day for celebration: celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. Joy envelops us, as it must have enveloped our ancestors 1,988 years ago when unto us a Child was born. Our joy comes this happy seasonfeaturing Hanukkah as wellnot merely from the family dinner at which we come together nor just in the delight that a small child takes in all the sounds and smells and sights and a gift. It's not simply the crackle of a fire, the tinsel on the tree, and the annual viewing of "It's a Wonderful Life." Yes, all these things are joyous, indeed, but this is also a time for prayer, a time for us to count our myriad blessings and reflect upon the joy that is ours every day of every year. Because of the common stresses and strains of everyday life, we may be forgiven for forgetting from time to time all that God has given us. One child has a fever; another is grumpy; a third is asking why is the sky blue, and all the while there are bills to pay and a roof that leaks. Sometimes it all seems a little too much, and at these moments we look back with longing to a time when our responsibilities did not seem so large. But this season those responsibilities are revealed for what they truly are: the God-given blessings that give our lives flavor and meaning. And the more responsibilities of this kind we have, the greater are our blessings. For in this way we're indeed made in the image of our Lord: At our best, our capacity to love seems inexhaustible. We know at this time of year that all we must do is give of ourselves, and in return we shall receive all that we have given and much, much more. We know that there are those among us for whom the holidays are painful and lonely. I know you join with me in hoping that this year they will take heart and have faith. For the message of this most joyous holiday is that we are allno matter what divides uswe are all loved by a force greater than ourselves, a love that surpasseth all understanding, a love that provides all the answers for those who feel lost and alone during these remarkable days. We are not alone; we're never alone. Now, here in our country, there are children, without homes, suffering from dire diseases, whose Christmases will be makeshift at best. But the miracle of human generosity can and does transform the holidays for them. This year, as in years past, your generosity has been breathtaking. Programs like Toys for Tots and literally tens of thousands of local initiatives are examples of this nation's determination to give all children a sense of what the Christmas spirit is and what it can mean for them. I know all Americans have joined with me in grieving for those who perished in the Armenian earthquake. Tragedies of this nature afflict our spirit; it's hard to see why such a thing happens, what it might mean. But the Armenian people are showing us they know they are loved. They know they can renew their strength and rebuild and rededicate themselves to life. We have been witness to the breathtaking bravery of the people of Leninakan and Spitak as they ready themselves for the task of going on. And, yes, they will go on, for the Armenian people are made of hardy stuff. As Hazel Barsamian, an American of Armenian descent, says, and I quote: "We have a history of this kind of tragedy. We are fighters. We are survivors. We stand together, and we will survive." And at a time of such terrible calamity, something happens in the world, something worth thinking about at Christmastime. For a time, the real differences that divide us-and will continue to divide usfall away. Closed borders open. Friends and enemies alike share the burden and hope to help. From Israel and war-torn Lebanon alike, supplies and aid have been sent to Soviet Armenia. And from the United States the response has been staggering: relief workers, tens of millions of dollars in private contributions, food, clothing, a cascade of good will and fellow feeling. Christmas is the time of the Prince of Peace, and we are therefore reminded yet again that our differences are not with common people but with political systems. In Armenia the birth of our Lord is not celebrated until January 6th. It is an Armenian tradition that priests travel to the homes of their flock and there make a special blessing with bread, water, and salt, representing life and substance. This season, more than ever, may the blessings of the priests over the bread and water and the salt provide the Armenian people with the strength to persevere and triumph. Nancy joins me in wishing all of you a safe, sound, and, of course, a very Merry Christmas! Until next week, thanks for listening, and may God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: Tonight we celebrate the coming of a new year, a time of expectation and promise. I believe it's going to be a very good year indeed. Our economy is healthy. Our defenses are strong. And our policy of peace through strength is paying off in spades. In 6 weeks time, the Soviet Union is due to pull its remaining forces out of Afghanistan. I'm confident the Soviets will stick to their timetable and be out by the 15th of February, which will then be a great day for world peace. I'm also confident about 1989 because in just 3 weeks George Bush will be sworn in as the 41st President of the United States. And a superb President he's going to be. He has handled skillfully the selection of his Cabinet, and the transition process is proceeding well and smoothly. So, the news is good this New Year's Eve. Of course, we still reel in shock and horror from the bombing of Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, and we extend our sympathy to the bereaved. Now, if, as seems likely, our terrorists have crawled out of their hole to threaten American lives, I can promise them this: The pledge we made to seek out the truth and punish the guilty is a sacred one which George Bush shares. Indeed, President-elect Bush knows as thoroughly as anyone in the world today the nature and problem of terrorism. As chairman of this administration's task force on terrorism he oversaw a report that is the toughest statement to date on the need for strong actionincluding, when warranted, military actionagainst terrorists. That report ought to be giving some people sleepless nights right about now. That crime aside, however, there is little to disturb us about the overall state of the Nation as we join together to make merry and sing "Auld Lang Syne." But still, during these days, when you turn on the television or read through the newspaper, you might get the idea that what faces George Bush upon his assumption of the responsibilities of the Presidency of the United States will be nothing but a series of impossible choices, heartaches, and just general trouble. Now, I'm sure most of this talk is simply evidence that we're about to go through a change of leadership, a moment in time that does funny things to people, particularly in Washington. For some, this is a time to put in their bids on the agenda of the future. For others, this is a time for the jitters because they try to imagine what the future will bring and find it a little confusing. These jitters have been overcome with courage and vision in both the United States and Canada as the way has been cleared for an historic new free-trade agreement to take effect tomorrow. And I want to assure you, as we do take this time together to look ahead, that there is not a single major problem facing this country today that cannot be solved when we come together to solve them. What it takes is the political will to solve themrather like a successful New Year's resolution. Now, here are a few New Year's political resolutions I think could be accomplished in 1989. I think we should resolve to keep within the Gramm-Rudman targets and eliminate the deficit entirely by 1993. I'll be telling you more about our budget for the next fiscal year over the next few weeks, but let me just say that this new budget represents a serious and dedicated effort to produce a realistic plan for meeting our responsibilities to reduce the deficit, maintain our defenses, and help the needy. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: All this can be done without raising taxes. Higher taxes mean slow economic growth, and economic growth combined with budget realism is the key to eliminating the deficit. George Bush's lips have been eloquent on this subject, and it sure would be a great new year if we continue the progress we made this year, putting an end to those mammoth continuing resolutions and work with a real budget again. We can continue to improve relations with the Soviet Union in 1989 if we remember that the key to improved relations thus far has been our strength and resolution. We must remain sober in our estimation of our negotiating partners and without illusion; we know about their goals and aims. Whether we're talking about bilateral relations with the Soviet Union or efforts to achieve a negotiated settlement in the Middle East, the lesson is the same: To achieve further reductions in international tensions, the incoming administration will need appropriate levels of defense spending, not to mention support from Congress for their foreign policy initiatives. Trust me, I know. Have a very Happy New Year. And until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
My fellow Americans: On Monday, I submit to Congress my final budget. It's a responsible plan which cuts the deficit without touching Social Security, weakening defense, or reducing benefits to the needy. And the best news is that this budget proves it can be done without raising your taxes. Our growing economy will, in the next fiscal year, produce $84 billion in new revenues with no increase in tax rates. Since the whole economic pie is expanding, the Federal Government's slice grows along with the private sector. Raising taxes would be the surest way to kill the economic goose that lays the golden eggs. So, I leave as I came: dead-set against any new taxes. And even if there were a tax increase, history shows that Congress would almost certainly spend the additional money. It wouldn't be used to reduce the deficit; it would just mean that you had to pay for an even bigger government. And now, with an estimated $84 billion in new revenues coming in, we can both reduce the deficit and increase Federal spending. By combining new revenues with previously scheduled reductions and savings in other areas, priority programs will grow by nearly $50 billion. There are more funds for air safety, fighting crime, housing the poor, and the war on drugs. Funds for AIDS research and prevention is increased by 24 percent. And money to clean up toxic waste goes up by a fifth. We also increased funds for the science and space program and for basic biomedical research. And student-aid funds are increased again, bringing it to a level 83 percent higher than where it stood in 1980. Real defense spending is increased by 2 percent. This is a small increase, but an important onethe price of peace and security for America. Through strength we achieved greater realism in the U.S.-Soviet relationship and breakthroughs in arms reduction. Our defense budget will enable us to continue on this path. Let's remember that despite the internal reforms in the Soviet Union, they are modernizing their weapons at a rapid pace, spending a far larger share of gross national product on weapons than the United States does. Spending on Medicare and Medicaid will increase by $10 billion in the next fiscal year. But if the past is any guide, the headlines will claim we've actually cut funding. Well, 'tain't so. In Washington, when spending goes up less than had been projected, they call that a cut, even through more of your tax dollars are being spent than ever before. With Medicare, we've simply limited the increase in payments to providers of services. There is no effect on the people who receive the benefits. So, my fiscal year 1990 budget provides for the needy; does not raise taxes; and by controlling the growth in spending, reduces the deficit next year by nearly $70 billion. This not only meets the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction target, it reduces the deficit even further and puts us on track to a balanced budget and a modest surplus by fiscal year 1993. This budget is a realistic program which protects the working families of America, provides adequate support for those who depend on government, and helps assure America's prosperity in the years to come. I've often spoken of the rising incomes Americans have enjoyed in recent years, but one group lags behind. According to a new report by the bipartisan commission on Federal salaries, real pay for top-level government jobs has fallen by 35 percent since 1969 due to inflation, while private sector pay has outpaced inflation. So, my budget includes higher pay for vital positions, ranging from judges to scientists to elected officials. This increase is still less than what was lost to inflation. Even after this raise, the real income of a circuit court judge will be 19 percent less than in 1969. The cost of these increases will be absorbed in the budget without slowing progress in the deficit, and we'll be getting something important in return. When salaries are too low, it's hard to attract and keep America's best in government. Federal judges are leaving the bench in record numbers, partly because they're paid less than junior members of some law firms. The National Institutes of Health that fight cancer and other grave diseases have vacancies for senior researchers that have been empty for 10 years due to poor pay. Also troubling is that some officials, particularly in Congress, now supplement their income with special-interest honoraria payments. My support for the pay increase rests on my firm belief that such payments undermine the integrity of our government and should be abolished. We must be willing to pay for excellence in government or risk a government run only by people of wealth or by those beholden to special interests. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.\par
}
 